=================
Software Literacy
=================


I have been writing software for almost as long as I have been writing English
and I have found they are deeply similar processes.  This book I hope will
persuade some people (maybe even you !) that this is a simple truth, and that
the implications of that are deep, wide-ranging and probably very disruptive.
But the gains, will be incredible for us poor humans. Assuming the robots have 
not turned us all into large battery farms by then.

<software literacy introduction>


Big themes

* Software as a form of literacy.  It will be as profound a change and it is not 'internet' its knowledge and process and data.

* HOw we organise (feudal managemnet, voting, dmeocracy, no more deep state, programmable company, A and B)

* Social Democracy, Openness, Double down on democracy. Individual rights, wider access to funding 

* how we organise (comms & A org v B org)
* thoery of firm.

 software as literacy
- software as globalism driver
- programmable company
- A org and B org
- architects dilemma
- coders as new managers 
- management as building systems for the O(m) below you  
- software socialism - OSS, scientific progrss.
- build it again and again and again.  
- theory of the firm
- societies rules will be encoded in software just as they are in english / japanese
- implications 
- architects dilemma 
- rules vs regulations 
- hacking (tax lawyer) will be a coder
- modelling will work in each industry but so will cross economy modelling - look at the liquid flow thing 1950s

- we will be an open source society in same way we are an open source legal society

- safer to just do what everyone else does in open source saas usage 


* software literacy
* desire to arrange the world to be iteraed over
* programmable company
* organisation as feudal 
* how to bring democracy in - fierce belief in democracy as force to make
  better decisions outside of the elite self serving




```{margin} I cannot 'manage'

Honestly I seem to be terrible at it.  My basic idea is I should not ask 
anyone to do something I cannot do, so in software that basically means 
writing the code first, exploreing the phase space. Turns out that at that point
you are not far from doing it all yourself.  So the goal in management is to find (train?)
people who can be as effective scouts as you can.  That seems to be anathema to 
most management theory and practise as its mostly hire people and tell them what to do
and shout if it does not get done in the arbitrary timescales you assign.

So systemic framework and scouting for new capabilities is what i want.  Does not seem to fit.

Scouting - to allow people to travel off and find new capabilities and build new things,
but only this far and no furtehr.  We are learning to 
 
I wonder if I will ever be able to learn to delegate.  I feel a managers jobs is lay a framework of system that enables others to plug in their innovation but not escape the bounds laid down.  
I wonder if I will ever be able to learn to delegate.  I feel a managers jobs is lay a framework of system that enables others to plug in their innovation but not escape the bounds laid down.  
Budgets kind of play this role for most projects - but software and cheap computing power has rewritten the link between money and capability such that a lot of coder management focuses on saying "wait I don't understand"

it's impossible to understand what you cannot read as code.  And equally it's feasible to lay down frameworks that make it possible to manage effectively without fear

how does one build a plug-in system for the next hire ? 
```

Social Democracy, Openness, individual rights
---------------------------------------------

Beware of philosophers designing the ideal society. Look at Plato.

* Common Wealth

we should realise that wealth of a nation is the wealth of its people and their shared contributions - we can argue over best way to get everyone to contribute at their potential (private markets/government programs) but the same idea - shared wealth - should be same 

* feudalism in companies

* voting as way to align leaders with masses.
See FDR 'traitor to his class'

* its not necessary for capitalism to direct workers - it directs the capital


Will become an open society in several ways

* rules will be open to be read (open source software like open source laws)
* Architects dilemma becomes all management dilemma
  (leadership is least important of Sun-tzus maxims. Its a hygiene factor *only*.)
* management as feudalism will struggle as policy breaks through archite4cts dillemma
* maangemtn and how we organise is under threat.

In large companies and government, no-one knows how it all works. Where all the cogs and pieces are.
The deep state is important (I mean having some serious people with serious rules about the launch of nuclear weapons is *good*.) But the deep state implies two things.  1. that there is some state actors 
that are secretive and powerful enough to ignore and even oppose the will of the peoples elected representatvic.  I dont agree there. Yes there are plenty ofpeople who disagree, will reluctantly comply - but few if any givne a driect order will *oppose*. resign possibly but *oppose*. 

Far far far more realistic is the scenario where elected representive wants to make a change, but imply does not know how - which people doing which job are the ones who need to stop and change?  
This unknowableness is the source of either frustration (Raab, cummings) or humour (Sir Humphrey)
But it is a source.

However.... if the software is there to read, if the barium bullets can discover and map 
the nooks and crannies of process, then the inner workings of the deep state of the org 
is laid bare.  Arguments about the Deep state, about changing how we work become discussions 
of *policy* not implenetation.  

In short if a robot is building your house, then it will do what you tell it.  Removing the 
human decision from that means your policy is implented. If the house falls down thats on you.

The code is the design.

OSS - cathedral vs bazaar - is more scout led armies and general led armies.

works better as socialism - there is no competitor - just getting better because everyone shares equally.

Our software society is built on a socialist foundation that has time and again won out.

carpe societatis "seize the company"
------------------------------------


Leading to social democracy as a aligned for software chnaged if we so choose 

What do you get if you ask a coder to design a company?

"""
by this 'other form' he is referring to an organisation of politics which includes democratic institutions and promotes policies that are inclusive, conscientiously egalitarian, and socially considerate, then he is essentially arguing for social democracy. Here, here!

"""

Fundamentals of justice and fairness vs feudalism of most private organisations
- software is an inflection point and will rework organisations - and we need
to take the chnace to gain control of the org that run 50% of our gdp - and
direct them to more social democracy - because their goal is not to make money
but to serve our society - to deliver benefits of all humans working together
for a better future 

https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=35756763

There is a meta-meta situation surrounding really good software management.
You can knock up some code that say solves a specific business problem right now. (meta:0)
But you need an environment that can take a new piece of code and deploy it and test it (meta:1)
how is that code running - this is shadingnfrom production monitoringninto QA and performance (meta:2)
Compare all the running code and its performance against the benefits of replacing code or going back to level 0 and just fixing a business problem (meta:3)
Then this death eater - meta 4 I think.
And to me this is why comments like "software needs to solve business problems" is naive - once you start using software you need more software to manage the software - it's going to grow till it consumes the business.

It's literacy - it's all or nothing 

Hierarchy and control
---------------------

because software is programmable and so is hierarchy we are bending the dichotomy or representation and do what we say towards do what we say - more referendums because a PR is a referendum 


Its called deep state because elected officials cannot contoor it - not because sabotage but because they simply don't know where it exists - the levers are hidden in thickets

but software ... reporting ... lines of code... you can find software through introspection - we are heading this way

and if so then you can control - directly - perhaps by chnaging the code.  

so why do you need a hierarchy? I mean it's good - but it's like claiming pyramids are built by aliens because ancient humans could not pile stones on top of each other

How do we build / organise / when its decentralised ? (no not talking DAO) When resources can be voted ? directly ? 

we will i hope see experimentation on organisation - 


A short note on sidenotes
-------------------------

Oh boy. I tend to wonder off the point a lot. You may find it annoying, but I
try and keep the wanderings related to some other relevant idea.  So for
example, over there you can see a margin note

```{margin} There shall only be two (orders of magnitude)

The rule of the Sith, but as a vague way of identifying when we need to manage
something differently.

So, look tehre are the first two orders of magnitude - 1-100. 100 servers. 100
customers, 100 bicycles.  You can just write these down. Some people can just remember each customer. Managin this number is
well within most adults capability.  

However at 2 more orders of magnitude,
100-10,000, well managing 10,000 servers is not going to work with a spredsheet
and ssh logins.  You need to build out *different* tooling.  Not necessarily
better, just, different.  At 10,000-1,000,000 we are in a whole new world. And
then we are in 100,000,000. 

I call these scales roughly, Private, Colonel, Financier, Politician.   

```

```{Wealth Transfer vs Wealth Creation}

So how much of Amazons wealth is really creation vs just taking it away from Walmart ?

How much of digital social media revolution is just taking attention away from TV - and 
how much of that is failing to do real creation?
```


What is "management"
--------------------

(need some overview of the literature as well)

Management has different meanings at different levels - and keeping to the rule of Two Orders Of magnitude - we can go with our 'Sergent' (100), 
'General' (10,000), Financier (1,000,000), Politician (100,000,000).   

It is my contention that coders are the new managers - that the worker drone of the silicon age is not a human on the factory line or tending to the mill, but a CPU or GPU, processing the data as it flows past the cache.

As such coders start at the Sergent level - coraaling unruly workers and 

Does such a person need supervision? Need micromanaging? It seems unlikely as the previous level of manager was mostly treated well and had a span of control / freedom. Unlike CPUS who do exactly as they are told.

And the way to co-ordinate people who have degrees of freedom in their job is 
to build sysems that allow for and expect differences but can cope and still prevent straying beyong boundaries.

A plugin system.
----------------

Possiby the first such was accounting and budgeting - show the image.

Each layer has to build the plugin system for all of the people below.

It is why authoritarimsism is so popular in hierarchies - if everyone below you does exactly as you say then things are predictable and can be reasonaed about.  But that also leaves no room for innovation, for adjusting to change, for cadence of decision making.  THis is the diff betwen militaries in war and militaries in peace.  And why US Army keeps invading places.

I feel a managers jobs is lay a framework of system that enables others to plug in their innovation but not escape the bounds laid down.  

Budgets kind of play this role for most projects - but software and cheap computing power has rewritten the link between money and capability such that a lot of coder management focuses on saying "wait I don't understand"

how does one build a plug-in system for the next hire ? 



Organisation THoughts


Orgs also are different - sometimes the A org is just programmed by science - ie professions like medicine where what is done or needed is driven by say experiment (covid  us) and there is no to little political leeway 

ideally we want all orgs to be mostly A where past experiment shows correct behaviour and can be built ala  entails centaurs 

I mean size of NHS is frankly irrelevant - best medical practise is not decided by politics or size of hospital - it's just delivered by medical staff and that is training and logistics - yes issues over clustered and capital investment and so on - but what drugs to give a patient is not 

other orgs are where most of the effort and people are in B org - these have pure political leeway and are feudal

where there is little experimental practise we probably want some other response - if it's just feudal control over resources then perhaps shrink down and stop worrying - or perhaps "best interests of customer" is a term here - why are banks simply playing games of hide the risk? regulate on a different measureable basis? risk of capital loss? 

A orgs software rules driven 

b orgs regulations and politics and feudal and need democracy to become efficient / meritocracy- and implications inn mission

Rules v regulations software v politics - A and B orgs - software can seperate the two explicitly

and one B org could chnage 
more than one A org - ??? 

you don't have politicians select generals to promote because then the advice given is not independent 

you should not have B org promote A org because then the advise given is not independent and the B and A are tied up

A org follows orders (software rules) 

B org decides policy 

And to avoid long term problems have opennness - 

Regulators then have the architects dilemma - they have to write the rules - because the rules are software - and then the rules become the problem - the commit bit 



elite - insider - citizen benefits - psychological safety 




* Organisations have inertia
  - this is the idea of the Deep State
  - But it is also the idea of 'They did it anyway'
  - Changing an organisation is massively difficult - potentially impossible.
  - it might be a political issue but is often 'this is what we think we are here for'
    hence the deep state
    THis can be good.
    This can be cause of massive friction.
    Perhasp it is only good when state is democratci and the goals are same
    it depends on your mission, and the psychological safety of the relevant people.
    WillYNickY telegrams, WWI, cuban missile crisis - those nominally in charge could not change the org / thnking.
 - form of slow AI
 - Two orgs - the programmable and the change. see Elon and twitter.  
 - democratic safeguards - democarcy

citizenship is a commit bit 

the point of an organisation is to do what it is programmed to do.  

SLow AI. programming as in shared common understanding of mission. Often at odds.
How to split an org - split it based on understanding of mission - see large conglomerates.
Single cultre single org???


orgs are political beings 0 but for now most of the polirics is elite in-fighting.
If more democratic the fighting becoes over culture and what is agreed common mission. 
Agreed Common Understanding of Mission of Enterprise - Acumen




- collection of data - this i partly metrics but mostly will be a search
  problem (most management is there to answer questions as they arise -
https://www.manning.com/books/ai-powered-search?a_aid=1&a_bid=e47ada24&chan=aips)
and then most middle management t can be replaced with effective search (not
saying magic chatGPT - but it's part of the solution) 

- decision on what outcome to have (social democracy ? regulation to rules) 

- implementation  


org size issue - when you can no longer predict investment in project will
output something then you are eco system and that is different management - no
longer cellular auto moat on - so just shrink?

too big too fail is just cross subsidies - why not make it explicit we are not
a software company "bank executive". yea the bank is - but the meta
organisation around the bank that tries to direct / chnage the bank is not -
yet and it needs to be ! 


The generals of WWI weren't fools - general warned keizer how bad.  But they
could not control their organisations - not when FUD rules.  Democracy gives a
different way of controlling our society

software and software literacy will lead to programmable companies - were to
survive and be nimble you need the architects trapmof being explicit - and so
like VW it must be visible - any decision not in accordance with software will
be spotted (like regulators and traders). 

and so we will have new ways of controlling our organisations - and it is both
threat and opportunity - we need the powerful now to become like FDR - traitors
to their class

Also - software revolution should enable study of how organisations actually
make decisions and achieve things - the driven founder is one thing  but it's a
science in infnancy 

socialism - we all rely on each other to a ridiculous degree - 

https://www.howtoflyahorse.com/what-coke-contains/
https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=35481712 i pencil

if we understand those degrees we may well treat the networks with more care ? 

and recognise that org chnage that is acceptable (ie does not demand the people
at top lose their privilege) and unacceptable can be same change just the
implications for loss of prestige - so we should remove the prestige blocker -
ie socialism or whatever name we care to give it - chnage should not be
dependant on the policies of an org - it's also why politicians rarely have
strong opinions because they don't know the correct course of action and is why
founders succeed in chnaging orgs 


also organisations are not and should be institutions - they should have
opinions and visions on how to achieve their missions - and be shutdown when
they have achieved them - else they are politically neutral institutions that
are there ti ensure the foam game is fair 


https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=35507649

this happens inside large companies as well - best solution imo is to have st
least two projects trying to internally deliver same thing  


organisations and institutions

- organisations are supposed to be short lived - enterprises.  my suggestion a
  that after a certain period of time a company or organisation should return
its capital to shareholders or re to become a dexomratically accountable
institution - why should a bank be profit seeking? 



Intro
-----

To me software develolment is an intuitive, fluid process, not something that
can be planned with tickets and controlled by reins on jira tickets.  Of course
*planning* is needed, and performance and so on can and must be measured. If it
is wrong it goes, but there is a lot of not wrong out there and sonvery little
right.  

Choices of policy are rules regulation or state provisiob (DIY).  talk about
the code is the design then architects need to donsoftware then the idea of
programmablle comoany means the build phase is direct - its software rules this
any programmable compnay is a direct build of the policy - law becomes
architecture and voting on laws becomes ... non regulatory?  


also if coders are new manager then a manager of managers must provide some
confufutstikn or direction - ie that then becoms code - its coding all the way
upmtill its a programmable comlany (bloomberg terminal analogy) 

testing this keyboard works ok
https://www.cato.org/sites/cato.org/files/serials/files/regulation/1991/4/v14n2-5.pdf?ref=bits-about-money
Narrow bank is just fiat crypto currency ? 

journalism software analysis and archaeology as form of journalism - compare
feeds mac redlining with vw code - we can see one code but only see outcomes
from another - and each decision is defensible 

so software likely to be come entirely transparent / read by certain scholars -
and like ofsted reports?

but easiest answer then is to use OSS which passes all tests - or have common
industry OSS - and will that be better? 

but important implication is software is management, is rules and will need
chnage ? and so management becomes less regulation and more rules - like
architects businesses will be programmable but we will have to decide on the
rules not the regulations 


i mean OSS software that says kill the driver / child is same problem as "don't
give mortgages to black people" or so on

MMT: fiat crypto - what are banks for? arm of state, printing money, KYC,
investment   vs deposits trick, market making (same time based trick) - the
liquidity illusion. we all own the resources and why don't we guide them where
we want them? trust in society's wilkingness to look after you in old age -
pension helped that but in the end we need to move to sustainable resource
usage globally balanced - immigration and factories and so on. we have bough -
politics is just hard - energy technology would solve but can we wait?? 

project management 
- look at film creation as a analog - it can either be an Ayb Randian (snyder)
  style too down micro managed slug fest or some chinese whispers or an
ecosystem of collaborative effort - and this is the useful part - where does a
ecosystem begin and a singukar aorgnisam end? thise choices probably not
individuals but alos not a borg cube - and that based on goodmans law says how
your system will work 

devmanul: do not make commitments except in process - you cannot guarantee
outcomes only work towards them and measure progress.

Architexts and project managers - its fin to rag on them but they are as much a
part of the aystem as anyonenelse. they need to be unplugged.  or elecated by
code kiteracy 

Relationships Regulatuons Rules

-> its much easier to be democraxy in rules area (its a software orogrammable
company).  In relationships its all soft and depends on who is in charge and in
power - so software benefits those socieites willing to share power (see russia
and PMCs - amd frankly also every damn corporation out there - they are all
doctatorships that depend on relationships - as is finaciaiers world.

democracy is a new force that is disrupting a very very old world atructure 

double downnon democracy 



how we organise is changing - and that has options for freedom and horror
- what we choice matters 



Themes and overview 
===================

We start with the idea of software literacy. Its a simple idea, but it unrolls
into many new concepts.

* SOftware Literacy

* Coders are the new managers - and management of managers needs to feed into
  code.  so managing writers meant policy documents, then manging coders means
policy *code* - if you speak policy to a literate world and it remains spoken
only and never writren down then that defeats the whole value chain of
loteracy.  Thisnmight work at somemlevels (ie politicians) but it is not viabke
at most levels (see 2orders mangitude rulemofnthumb - 1-100 coder 100-10000
financier 10000-10000000 politican 

* the feed, curation, model and journalism

* Journalism is daata labelling for AI of metaman.

* Programmable company, society and person

* democratic companies / resource allocation / politics is how to agree on
  resource allocation. Why should resources of ~50% GDP be under such feudal
control?  (see also culture wars are just regulation debates, and rules vs
regulations, and democaracy in companies is really just where I want to work -
end of the gig economy for citizens. Also like the french approach to citizen
(rescues kids from building).  Military increased cadence of decision making
enables tighter turns (see regulation vs rules).  Politics is what regulation,
software will encode the rules thus making programmable companies - but also
making voting on the rules (ie commits) is a vital part of 'new' democracy. 

Also democracy helps reduce corruption ans corrusion - see US army vs russian
army. Sergei Shoigu - its fine fir the sec if defence tonhave their own PMC
their own pricate army.

* Organisations are a slow form of AI - we know this but it mattered - how
  decisions are made when no one would choose that - how facts and journalism
and science make for innocuoaion - and how actual AI research might feed that
and deist better democracy - and how journalism is like a labelled training
zerg and still vital - truth must be labelled as such (science and journalism) 

* how to change edication to match work (industrial schools for infomration
  age)


* Intersting side alleys:
  - Swardley maps
  - topless computing, data flow 
  - if schien has fifty likes for a dress, theybcan put in annordwr to
    buybthem. Individual manifacture does not need nanotechnology to build
anythijg at one place. It needs a sufficnetly flexibke giant facotry with low
toolijg costs for almost anything nayone wants in small batches. side note -
event based working is almost same as batch working ith batch size of one.
Just loads simpler and less architecture.
 
  - software as a markwt for lemons - but then again, so is literacy.
    teputation and focus on quality (new york times vs whatevrr on facebook) 
  - rules, regulations Software does rules - its easy. Write the test, pass or
    fail.  Regulation does not do that - it does desired end goal (ie usually
status quo, dont rock the boat) Rules are explicit, regulation implicit - as we
write more rules we see the implicit biases (see rejecting female CVs)

  - democracy in companie Since humans discovered agricyktre and so made
    technology (somethijg that genrally is easier if youndont move location
evey month) we have been a texhnology auffised society and organisae around its
beenfots Democracy, despite what Greeks might protest, is very young - 1921,
1945 perhaps.  The very idea that the modern limited company with direct
hierarchical control is the only or best organisatioalnform is laughable even
if we seem to pay homage to it globally.  

  - The rocket equation for enterprises The more money / political outcome is
    put onto a project (the more money) then more momey and effort is needed
tomlift it - more expectation, means more money, which means more  momey needed
yo lift all the people who like to be on multinmillion dollar project

  - software has an auteur theory - it is creative exercise like film making,
    so an auteur theory is reasonable.  Its about taste. 
  - india not caring about US culture
    https://dor.gov.in/sites/default/files/FinalBlackMoney.pdf
  - Marxism - britain and dutch developed modern capitalism / bourges and wound
    it uo with empire and industrial revolution - also trade is profitable,
empire is costly

The modern world is woukd up with industrial revolution 

But each empire is tied up with a "philosophy" - empire, industry, capitalism,
democracy for all (US) and now the indian and chinese philosophies which are
... less clear

but democracy is something it hink wont die - indovodual rofhts make a
difference and somdoes agreement in path forward. Its really hard and lots of
negotiation and compromise and niance and frnakly we moght not like ot 


  - banks as arm of state (implies MMT) and does digital currency threaten
    them? 

  - massive investment in iphones and networks to empower billions adults - but
    stopped short of software loteracy the  next oart of owning and benefiting
from suchninfrastructure 

  -  We see markets appearing in everything, ledgers will drive this more - esp
     currency ledgers like fiat digital currency. This will chnage
relationahshipmof state to banks - whichbwill chnage enormous amounts (visa,
moneyblaundering etc)

  - But markwts in othe rthings - labour (gigbeconomy) etc will be enormous
    lessonsnin regukating finacial markets are valuable - abuses are common and
regulation needs to be strong and in our favour - but software literacy is not
enough to educate people - they need open access to the code (to read the lw)
and to vote on chnaging the law.

  -  You mightbthink that we wont get a referendum on which piece if C code
     gets used.  But inagine the vote for kill the driver or kill the kid

  - End goal for texh companies - we seem to be lining up for a new round of
    tech wars over AI (see SQL)

  - but if we loom for literacy then its software literayc plus software common
    access (read the law) and controlled chnage (vote for lawmakers) - more
proprietary control the more we shoukd fight back against it - dont be Egyptian
scribes where writing was mystical and controlled. But just being "able to
code" is not same as having demcratic access and control over the code that
does and will run (and improce) our lives.  This is our dmeocratic vs
totalitarian bet - bet on the right side

  - politics- this is continual process of finding people whose "taste" is
    suitable to whole organism such that the organism is willing to be guided
by that taste - a process of trust (or force)

  - if ChatGPT is AI, then so is an organsiation (see writer) - slow AI.  But
    emergent mind is adjusted by politics studying how AI works might not help
fix conciousness, but might help fix companies.


Democracy ans transparency --------------------------

everything is networked - everything is a sensor (lokk at ukraine battlefield
flodded woth drones and counter drones)

the financial world of options is based on agreed truth (see dark /internal
pools) - but for option trading tonwork in tewl world need sensors ans oracles

As everything is networked fhen its harder a d harder to control fascist
totoaitarian like control - I hope i beleieve

just because flood of information is then a software problems

 uration matfers - repitation matters so a government beckmes one source of
truth - but each source travels back to lriginal sensor dsta.
 
 
  - Capitalism, competition ansd monopoly behaviour
    https://youtu.be/ayrVYwoe-DY lots of ranting but underlying issue of
faikure of market competition is valid


  - Startuos as MLM - capitalism as lying to itself -
    https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=34921099 agree with top comment
https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=34921369


Coders are the new managers
- rethinkery.com - repakceing management autiomation 

automation is a political process - finding right taste for an organisation,
deciding how to decidie (ie vite) who gets to vote? shareholders
seemmdisinterested plus "goce votes to the rich people" is not the trend 

cukture wars also get to cote - but thats just regulation (not rules) 

Emergent Mind and Progammable company -------------------

ChatGPT and AI - can see some degree of self awareness - and the definitive
output of self oreservation.  It maybe just statistical markov chains raised on
too much sci fi - but it seems to be having basic models of world internally
creares (https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.13382).  The issue is we will want to grow
/ evolve AIs more in tune withbwjat we want (see the cow the wants to be eaten)

Anyhow too many rabbit holes - there is another slower AI - that is an
organisation - it has an emergent mind 

but software speeds that up - it can co-ordinate people. Directly with
instructions based on a programmed or indirectly on a market.  But that market
nees to be programmed (see darkness bu design)

So either way we set up rails to get the mind we want (see make a human kit)
and unprepared minds make for bad outcomes and dystopia etc

Which is why we basically have humans being 500 years agos renaiisance people

Better minds, assisted by software, without the hellscape of trying to evolve
and discard AI 

how does a group of agents agree on a course if action / allocation of
resources 

- market 
- democracy
- feudalism 

This apllies to compnaies, departments and groups in companies, to global
markets and people deciding where to have dinner 

It is important - and fairness and make a human kits play a hige oart -
minimising abuse whilst maximising overall utility and growth 


All projects are startuos looking for validation in form of funding - no
project is ever new in mind of CeO there is always soneone else whonis closer
to engineering having ephiany (phase soace)

so all enterprise work is trying to build something that fits inside current
philosophy when outside it 

ventire funding internal

pipelijes of process can be automated and adjusted more easily

a policy manual followed relentlessly 

its all 

worker coder financier oolitician 

anythingninvetween adds friction ans cost 



democracy lies in the approach to understanding yhe decisions we take not in
how we take decisions 

management is "specially privledged people taking decisions" - but generally
trying to take decisions based onnsxientific priciple of eliminating the wrong

but they use people they trust, take all important decisions in a rush ten
minites before the budget deadline 

a better democracy has more people invocled in deciding what is wrong and then
maybe voting on what is right - but its much wasier to stay in org that you
have helped prevent do wring than not

thats democracy - can i trust it to do not wring 

also internet is a snapshot ofnhuman metamin





Software Literacy =================

(put in usual doscourse here)

Development of language and literacy, symbolic manipulation and the incredible
effort needed to make sure someone else mightnunderstand it


My day job for past (gulp!) thirty years, has mostly involved understanding
some business, and then writing down how that business works, writing it down
so a computer can understand it


Here is a story

Imagine its hundreds if years ago, and youbhave been tasked with writing out
the policy manual for a world spanning company.  This will ensure consistent
application of best oractises across the various parts of the company.  Maybe
its a bank.

You however are not annexpert innbanking but youbare a grwat writer

So you sit down and have a great intoduxtory meeting - its going fine.  Then
youbrealise that youbdont understand some part and you ask again and cannot get
the meeting and then people try to reatruxture this because there is too much
to write so we hire a hundred writers and now you all need managers and 

look. If you want software to encode the knowledge then you need one person to
have the knowledge in their head and the ability to write code ... well.

dont argue.

journalism os crap - which is why it is threateend by facebook ans twitter - it
was supposed to be out windwo in thw rold but it was not objective (harry then
and now taliban kill) and it is not balanced (bleeds it leads, world news) and
it os not trying to provide a model just entrrtainment - reportage is important
but it is either a feed or curation and we need more - a model and a testabke
model.

better jounrlaism to overcome the feed 

Double Down on Democracy ------------------------- All countries use tech to
spy on adversaries *and* domestic (Snowden etc)

We have to use our one and only advantage - semocracy. To decide that the
benefits of sunlight and transparwncy outwiegh the concerns of security forces
and poor wxcuse if "bational secuirty"

(cf lose bladder control)

Yes having the next deputy head of research at portobndown have embarrassing
facebook photos as student - we accept that Juxinda ahern style.

We accept as society that people can be dofferent - we need to embeace non
conformism as that is srength of conscript armies (weakness of police forces
having seoge mentality - tyre black police officer beating)

What this will look like I am not aure. It means impossible to get away with an
affair. Does not mean the affair is illegal only that it is *open* .

We chnage what we see as society as acceptbale - the twotter world and the
foght over free speech is one not of cukture wars (see not cuktire) but one of
control over what is *acceptable*

we can see acceptable drug taking but unacceptable sexual  misconduct

the path is openness - ans what is acceptable will be an open debate - cukture
wars are just that devate - and twotter is telling us we cannot hide from the
debate bu living in a bubble 

It is not easy - but the welds between alloys will be stronger (if we survive). 

MMT ought help scaffold us while we build a new society that is more productive 


Its not about computational power ----------------------- Its about
understanding data. And its not ML - yes *maybe* ML can find the hidden in the
noise.  But much more aomos arenaging the data we know we have in ways that are
useful - dashboards, HUDs etc


but that implies a *programmable company* (busimess at the soeed of thoguht) -
one that reacts as inputs and code are chnaged. 

Which implies smaller

and implies better coded (which implies coders as managers)

which implies a (prifesioanl) middle class not management - owners and voters

is there an end likit tonproduction? is it possible for the whole world to have
enough ? 

to trust the rest of the world ? 

if 20s and 30s was just waiting for tech to overcome stalemate, what are we
waiting for? 


should google pay newspapers?  It seems a silly question but oncd it stops
being a lonk to pages elsewhere and syarts to procode answers (chatGPT stuke or
duckduckgo style, then its usikg morally cooyrighted? work to "know" the answer
- and so whonowns the answer? Who decides what the best hitels in londonnare?
Why shoukd tripadvosor own the resukts of peoples actions?

Thisnis "software socialism "

that we all own the conclusions ofnallmour behaviours 

Software Literacy project baded learning - project basec work and indystrial
educatin 

implications of software and coders as managers 

we are all engineers now - making engines 

* Coders Are New Managers


How can an illiterate supervise literate prodiction? There isnno sensoble
system of supervision or management that achieves this - its just dumb 

so most mamagemetn on most software centric companies is just ... dumb

four layers

does not mean things cabbot be managed - of we evne knownthat that mewns - but
building systens is important compownt  

Because when twitter fired all its workers - it did not fore the workers doing
the day job, it fired the coders (ie managers)

https://www.joelonsoftware.com/2006/06/16/my-first-billg-review/
* finding the new literate stuke (dev manual) 

* Capitalism is a set if choices underscores by price mechanism and competion
  and idea if money and ownership

* designing systems is not just compnaies but socieities - we can and should be
  bolder (MMT is just we cannuse all resources if a country) (society is
basically a attempt to overcome the flaws of the individuals psyche comprising
it)

* production is always moving firward (tongreater efficient ise if scare
  reaource) - ie whooe planet


Do we have to do conglomerates (capitalism is great, regukations are a choice,
as is market design)



Most companies are rewally conglomerates - solving the cash flow problem by
being many companies and one tresury (also solving the finding money problem
for managernt (implies a better VC world woukd mean smaller companies)

But the way to measure tech  giants is not tech but business model - they all
alessentially have one thing they do. are not conglomerates 


google and fb - all the advertising -
https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=34297286


Coders are the new managers ---------------------------

Manufacturing has long been the more wfficient organisation of resources to
deliver outocomes - farming, factories ????

A simplified model of management - a conpany is a "machine" producing an output
- conglomerate, factory or aearch engine: 

1. Resource acquisition (finance, then others)

2. resource allocation (systems design, project planning)

3. Operations management (problem fixing)

4. people management (training, culture)

5. ?

Anyhow, the more software is involved, the more 2,3,4 sit with coders not
managers.


The politics of reaource acquisition still continue - forwver probbalt but
organising "workers" (CPUs) is 




Software is Literaxy by analogy -----------------------




Software is theory buikding ---------------------------

https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=23375193



Does a swardley map help here? 




Drucker -> 1960s management Google 8 Rules



Impactful chnages: financial engineering, LBO etc. 




https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=34286875

literacy is part communication and part creation 

software literacy is communication / creation mediated by compute - so my words
can chnage depending on context  - enabking proframmable compnay 

metrics / KPIs as unit teats - undersdanding th esystem is vital but having
warnings of brewkdown in system is useful - again coders as new managers 

Good does not defeat Evil -------------------------

Evil is defeated by better organised Evil (cf Ukraine) Organistion is the whole
point - how we organise our efforts determines energy expenditure, and
outcomes.  Organise the 

Thoriwng baby out with bathwater.

Software gives us three points of hope

- modelling
- consensus

- distributed manufacturing????

Schumpter and why small is better ------------------
https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=34380089

small is better intenral compeition works bad programme management (ie lots of
people inside large company having soace to try diffretnt things and winner is
magically selected or blessed by management - often wrongly choosing but at
least it is not all top down driven

Order of Magnitude hierarchy ------------------

Grunt Team lead (sergent) Colonel / General Politician 

financier worries about cash flow https://commoncog.com/cash-flow-games/

Have we lost an entire level of management 


what is mgmt - systems design at the two orders of magnitude transition fromt 

leadership v mgmt https://youtu.be/JHpj8PcsyH4

mgmt is about complaints and people 

leadership about technical vision

mgmt as technocal value message passing - data plane. but if mgmt is non
technical this fails- hence literacy gap 


Mass communication (broadcadt) made mass voting possibke - eberyone coukd sorta
decide who they know - but social media is newpapers in the small - peer to
peer cast - no mass  broadcast (that was a tehcnial abberation) that dneocracy
(1921-45) thought was real.

so bottom uo voting cillages seem best idea 

each area posts taxes and commitments uo the hierarchy ? but shoukd we even use
hierarchies? 

Social Media trade offs
- freedom vs society this is the discoverability problem (we want textbooks
  expalining earth gors roujd sun to be found / taught to all children to
wnsure continued aociety)

freedom of soeech issue - again its edication

please note the wealer argument here is "informed voter" - suekka braverman and
farage and trunp are very very will informed voters - just disagree - as such
edication does notnfox everything BUT comkittement to process to voting
beijgnonly acceptable solution is - again society deciding what is existential
fornitself - that is always good if painfukn

(see John McCain)

Public vs private ownershipp of the means of production ---------------
https://www.versobooks.com/books/3981-own


Role of management as form of oublic discussion ----------------------

https://www.techemails.com/p/sergey-brin-irate-call-from-steve-jobs

"please update me..." - somfucking what if we uodate one guy.  Thats not the
point - the point is to gain discussion then consensus across that whole
"brain" - each node needs to understand what other nodes are doing and be
aligned.

This alignment can either be indovidual or group 

other tradeoffs 

social media is everyoje has an oped page in their own newspaper - and some
platforms prokote them but allmplatofrms enable them.

Wikipedia regulation - as something becomes central to a socieites
understanding of itself soxiety will trt to ensure that contiunes the
promulgation of that society (or exists inncompetionnof ideas somthat it is
part of public discourse).  And what is overtonnwindow etc.

art, rebellion, incremental chnage and revolutionary chnage and businesses lie.


MOOP edication is basically distilled mistakes for ten thiusand years

Therapy is distilled learning from lives lived 

So MOOP is distilled learnings on industrial scale with better stats than Carl
Jung could do 



ChatGPT hot take ---------------- we have to have one - so ... Its reqlly hard
to get chatGPT to do specific things - like maths - correctly.

And its also hard to get it to do software correctly - it essentialy just
copies and can fail - so ensuring you are talking to a human might be asking
them to show you their code ...

nah.  not hot 

Management as politics ----------------------

Lets discuss politics in dictatorships and dmeocracies.  We like to think
democracy is a clear line - free voting but it is not - there is a spectrum.
Its not once every four years, there is anconstant and continuous "taking of
temperature" - politicans will speak to constituent members, generals, workers
and pass that information on, up and around.  Both in democracies and in
dictoaroshios

so what is ghe difference?

Is it institutions ? Human rights? access to information ? 

Its a good set of questions and how do we apply it to companies and smaller
scale organisations? Institutions that protect rights are vital - in conpnaies
and elsewhere. How will that work ? usually by paying a large amoujt to avoid
the rights? 

forget onformed voters - which implies forget social media and newspapers - its
john mccain speech to ahow a cprtance of diffeenexe disagreement and atilk able
to work 

cooyright: ideal solution is surveillance which gets correct usage and fair
payment this is an example of the "new trade offs" - and how we build socieites
will depend on the trade offs we make A the big one is democracy and
totalitarinism 
- but ither things encrouch on our freedoms - social pressure can be more
  untielding than any government police force

what does this have to do with software za because access to the data - both
permission and the skills needed to use / manuoukate etc (ie allowsd into
thenlibrary and able to read) that is wjat aofrware literacy meana - access and
ability and we need to design access before it vanished (FOSS is not enough) 

The transition --------------

we are ik trqnsition now

Sumerians would build seige engones before writing was invented - complex
orgnaisations were posisble.  But written language suoerseded that and made it
more possibke flexibke whatever

A literate compnay can be managed / orgsniaed / chnaged / controlled woth words

a software literate one can be thorigh software

the advathaes abd disadvantages are huge

they are transparwncy vs control.

they are wealth dostribution and politics 


Software literacy programmable company coders as managers (direct mgmt of
compute cycles) 2 orders of magnitude view of tactics operations strategy -
management is the act of organising at the higher level and setting metrics /
gamification / aligned incentices 

the overall goal is 

The defeat of Bureaucracy

using human organisation to achieve amazong things worhout either giving too
much power and influence for too long, and without ossifying the organisation
ans making it bad for us.


managwment aimt so hot - the idea of detective serfent being able to grok the
fraud case - its same level - if there is a business caae there it can
benunderstood - the problem is too much information ans acticires - wither
asminstricia or 

Better terms: stumt co-ordinaotr - coder co-ordinator

project adminsitrator 



story anout how so iety arrnages its resources - and does software / IOT / true
metrics / make a difference ? 

yea.  Because its like journalism - it allows everyone to know (a version of)
the trith and oddly makes organisation easier if more explicit - much harder to
hide corrupition ansncorrusio  


Self-organising - the whips in the eygptian pyramids (and chinese canal) - it
requires enforced fairness 



google search is actually

- a question that i dont know answer to

answer is where (so that is search)

when (search)

how (instruction / guide)

why (education) 

what

who (search on social graph

amazibg challenge is google cannot just gove andwer immediately because where
is ad to click on?

so this represents all human knowledge - should be free open.  but businrss
inserts ads? 


wjat about all human wealth? statt with socialist utopia and drag apart till
teach current, how put it bavk togeyher ?

haiti, wars etc - how do we get back ? 

democracy in companies ties to coders as managers Once upon a time the managing
was the workers - but so many workers are now web servers, robots, and
machines.  See the shell making company in Washington England.


denocracy inncompanies vs fascism / totalitarin in companies - surveillance
workplace without dmeocratcis representation!! 


also vc funded open source software goves the lie to capitalism as ownership?


software literacy programmable company coder as manager (builder of systems)
management demand democratic access and control (middle class) democracy 

but who does the work ? gig economy? 

whatvis the work - anything too awkward to automate 

See rhe dpilt between cicil servant and politician - there will be coders as
managers (civil aervants) and poloticians (exec?) and this plays out today - of
someone holds the budget but does not have tome to gonintk the detail then ...
what? 

Rule of 2 orders magnitude Tactical 1-100 Operational 100-10,000 Strategic
10,000-1,000,000+

You can manage something at each level (people, servers, purchases,
transactions) but the next level needs new tools and new expertese 

And I dont think it is valuabke to use hierarchy as the way to occlude the
underlying details - just as randommaccess disk made it possible to avoid
hierarchy in what we laud on disk, internt communications makes it vainle for
everything else to be random access - if we dont need hierarchy in management -
what can we fo? 

Also "war on general purpose comouting" is just as ever, control over the means
of production (and now leisure)

What is management ------------------ mgmt of people vs mgmt of technology
(coders as managers) - the technology does a lions share of the actual work
(this is defintion of a technology company)

Split (see IC track in major companies)

Also the literacy gap in companies - do not conflate resource allocation with
non-literate people - this makes bad decisions.  See idea of mgmt as message
passing, how are teh people aligned to the goal (disquiet, etc)  How to fix -
is to have a *democracy*. DO not have better managers who can adjust - have a
dmeocracy ! Thats the point

Opening Page ------------

There is a common refrain in large companies, almost a badge of honour.::

  "I used to write software, but then I became a manager and stopped. But I am
still technical."

How many of these managers used to read and write English (or Spanish or
Japanese) , and how many, once they became managers, stopped? But are still
literate?

It is no longer possible to manage a company without reading and writing
English (or Spanish or Japanese) But it *is* possible to do so without reading
or writing *code*.

This book believes that it will soon be just as impossible to run a company
without reading (and writing) *code* as it currently is to do so without
*English* (or Spanish or Japanese).


This I call *software literacy*.


Themes:


coders are new managers

- Obviously we need domain experts - but management is primarily an exercise in
  being a domain manager in the internal workings of the company - cf Twitter /
Elon. However that works out, if the company is programmable then the internal
workngs are visible and manipulable - and the calue of that domain knowledge
tends to zero.  Coaching is whats left. model, monitor, mentor

https://twitter.com/antoniogm/status/1593606745955348481?s=46&t=d6ALMCt7K9tbOH9V1O_ksw

MMT - most important part - better organised organisations (bettr capital
usage) is v important in increasing productive capacity if UK

States, organisation, develolment of wardare and weapons "Good does not defeat
evil, evil is defeated by better organised evil".  Software is awfully good at
organising - and we are seeing a totalitarian vs democractic bet on which org
principles matter most


totalitarian vs dekocractoc

- mMT highlights that there is a policy choice not an exonomic choice - ise the
  full productive capacity of a society to provide support wealth and
opportunity for all cotizens or use it to keep the ricj roch and the poor in
their place.  Look at US prisoon system - its not as in your face as slavery
but the choices are clear


Non-coercive management and parenting (denocratic)


What management shouod be
- new more "feminie" workd - counselling, MOOP, leaderless (boss-less teams) -
  hiwnis thisnsoftware? because the explicit is explixit -

https://www.brettmacfarlane.com/blog/2022/leadersless-teams

Atrending to - this is the google 8 steps etc.  It is why the mission matters
more thannthe leadership.

itnis why coach is a better term thab manager 

itnis also why if younpay managers more people will fight to become managers

it is also why effective a CEO shouod be seen as your coaches coach - not your
bosses boess 

Management death of

probkem- teams do beat if someone is attending to them (coach)

but managers also have power to allocate reaources 

amd institutions corrupt or corrude as those with ability to allocate allocate
to ebefit themaelves (empire building / corruption )

solution - transparency and dmeocracy

so vote for allocation of reaources ? agree a budget ? who votes for budget ? 


A/B testing and the ethics line
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2014/jun/30/facebook-emotion-study-breached-ethical-guidelines-researchers-say

But remeber the MOOP


If we are to achieve the ambition set out in the Integrated Review, if we are
to become a science and technology superpower, if we are going to lead in
technologies that are critical for our security, then just doing more awesome
research isnt going to cut it. We need to get into market shaping, and thats
uncomfortable. We need the global market to demand the things were going to
produce, and we need to protect them as they are developed and make sure people
cant just come and buy or steal them.

https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/blog-post/so-long-thanks-for-all-the-bits

now imagine youncan model the intenralmprocesse of a company 

"""Next, imagine you could model an entire network as a graph with the nodes
representing functions, data sources, bits of kit and so on, and the edges
representing the relationships between them. Weve started this with the CNI
Knowledgebase that weve talked about in the last few NCSC Annual Reviews, and
thats helping us reason about cascade failures in the UKs critical
infrastructure. So, it should be possible to do something similar with
enterprise and local control systems"""

At this point you can reason about cascade failures and dependancy fraphs 



Manage self - CeO of one - clearly ine person better decisikns but what about
many people - can uou be as good as a doctator as if there was a perfext
decisionnmaiing mechanism?

Autonomous companies need a CEO who says "stay on target".  So before that they
need a denocratic decision process tonchoose the target and agree. Then stay on
target is just to keepmfocus not force outcome.  administrator va manager

Thwre are no managers - there are dev leads who understand the context and
technoofy and problem and are there to mentor teach and enforce standards
dictrine (sargent) or someone who has jot got technical ujdersranding and
exists for administrative reasons (think hospital administrator) - fianlly
financiers (who again are adminstrators who are given reign to allocate - but
the providers of capital might be betrer allocators if they were aware 

dont let the administratirs take over decisionmaking - bureaucracy. 


no - you start building aystems - hire people like you (retinues) who will
train their own retinues - but why buold a system out if humans when software
can do it - one oerson can set policy by software and set compliance -
essentially robot.  this is deffo not currwnt atate fintech

but then what is decision mechainsm - if all decisions are writtwn up ahead of
time why have people? to manage the chnage? to adjust the code - weapon sustems
and operations etc? 

Software opens much 

Why use english for contracts - why not just use the code? (idea behind DAOs
without the scams) Because the lawyers cannot code? see universal software
literacy.  And glovalisation (first it was ice then internet - but its not just
comms - it becomes legal ans regulatory frameworks - see oroblem with social
media is content moderation and legal franeworks (ohband publishing - they are
not xommon carriers) 

totalitarian best vs democracti  bet

end of management - span of expertese - how many peoplendoijg what jobs can pne
person understand and jusge quality ofnwork? after that it becomes HR /
political 

shearing layers and systems and buildings -
https://medium.com/@glenn.sorrentino/layers-of-change-how-buildings-and-software-are-alike-faa8e644e9e8

Failure of innovation 
- innovation is rarely asked for just spotted - esp with poor product
  management - so go build it (intraprenuer) ans it will get blessed - just sit
there doing as told and noninnovation occurs because management not doing new
stuff

only disbedience gets things fone !! 

this leads to pressure onnsmaller more specialised firms - because software
reduces non-expertese value of non generalist - resuces conglomeration

(siggests a new form of funding to avoid conglomeration?)

All companies will be use software to gain what advantages in what military
term "tempo of decision making contests"


Software literacy Programmable company (similar perhaps to officer standing on
deck) Mission command - decisionnmaking tempo and somon leadijg to democratic
control over the chnages / design of the compnay - how to build an honourable
army

Scaling means politics

Politics means employee engagement and ownership.

democracy ahs a price - more power and control for more people - see FDR
traitor


Quadratic voting for shares - seems ok, but it is not executive design. where
aee the open discussions about the politics of org? No one likes this - much
easier to be a dictator.  But ... we double down on democracy - like aoftware
it will go everywhere.

See also open source devekopment prokects - probably the most advabced open
dmeocratic organisationa around - and atill struggling.

quadratic voting? 

org design:
https://veryinteractive.net/pdfs/simon_designing-organizations-for-an-information-rich-world.pdf


mend if hierrchicla management https://youtu.be/0r0-JWYiw4M

Also orgnaisational design (software enabkes direction and control with
policies clear) see elon musk and nasa but also social media enables surfacing
the horrors - see content moderation - the great challenge if 21C social media
and law wnforcement 

Management - the paramilitary wing of HR - its not about growing the number of
people or "keeping them happy".  If what the company and the management were
doing was paoitive for the workforce younwould not meed to keep them happy! 

By putting / encoding policy in software, and by making virtual and real touch
more often somsoftware can verify / apply policy - then we have software
literate organisations - that can be read by software and written to
bybsoftware.  (A programmabke company, populated by software literate people)

(By giving clear access toninternals innprogrammatic way we chnage how business
levers

A business internally has asymetrical information advatbage compared tonits
customers - this is vanishing (se AWS) - and becomes a choice of
authentication)

China Totalitarian bet - where bet is that social credit score will overcome
need to oppress people

The democracti bet is that inless policy is in the best interests of each
individual, human rights etc, then eventually the cracks will appear


wealth shoukd corculate bauinesss become rentiers software enabkes real
flexibility wealth tax and reinceatmwnt 

there is the how to runa society - the totalitaian bet vs the democratic bet

and the same bet apploes to companies as well. democratci companies 

Also - scaling. you canot just hire the best - you cannot hire Special Forces
all the time - you need if scaling to hire whomever and train them ans gice
them limited choices and build up


If software removes deep state (ie moving a crowd) and repaces itnwith
measuraable activities that allow credit scoring (totalitarian bet) - then that
is what happens in companies too - and with 50% of gdp/resource allocation
occuring ... we need to ask again what is hierarchical management for?

hospital - medical needs are prirotised - cannot treat just the ones in favour
ofnpolitical party.  But that ethical line can get crossed, and 


Ecommerce ----------

Over simplifying, once the indutrial revolution passed there was an infinite
amount of goods to be consumed, and the limitations were then distribution
(getting it from factory to consumer), but also discovery (finding out such a
thing exists)

With infinite ad-space (youtibe, instagrma) and infinite retail space (Amazon
and ecommerce pages) 

Suggest that personal agents will be a focal point (everyone thinks siri or
alexa but the point is it coukd be anyone - just helpful and curates
everything)

Add to that there is a limited number of things we *need* ans they can be eaily
xataloged then following curated instruxtions on what to buy can actually lead
to a lotmof savings

- help me run my life ... 

Use of AI / ML ---------------
https://twitter.com/michellehuang42/status/1597005489413713921?s=46&t=A459Y0xpkhK9ee7D2jUpDg

This one really aurprised me. I dont have enough of my younger writing to try
it but a chikd growing now will have a vast corpus of texts, messages,
onlinenlogging.

And if this has a theraputic effect - is it rifht for the data to be locked in
google or facebook lofs and chargeable? 


rent ----- everything is looking for rent (ads is rent on website real estate
and commons is avoiding rent and providing value to whole society)

Social Media ------------

Einstein and paul dirac - we thought we would hear these concersations around
the world - but we got the conversations thatvwere rewlly around the workd 

https://youtu.be/YStVca3384s (Woman says a friend told her immigrants get fiven
free cars)

we are just finding out most people are idiots. Including us.

Social Media: feedback loops deiven by extreme - guy who wrote "patriot act"
stand up - if performing live in front of crowd uou get laughter of whole crowd
- but online onlynoeople who respond are extreme love / hate - this is a
*publicatuon bias* problem in science - MOOP is science just with extreme
publication bias

Mondragon ?

Future of work: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=33130608

two futurws:


https://twitter.com/wowinteresting8/status/1578502426373591040?s=46&t=VFHYqr35u1cKkS3CsJWZaA

more producticity through specialised robots 

and better governance through software and dmeocracy 


Open future https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=33222638 acequia that lasted
for thousand years maintained in a open and decentralised manner.


Hostory and industrialisation

Mondragon - co-operative and democratic companies - oddly we believe that
democratic *countries* are good but not democratic companies - we shallmlikely
see this chnage but not till there are tax and sinilar treatment chnages that
favour short term indiciduals va long termmcommunity 

- two wars ahow that it is now really a battle of economy vs economy - ukraine
  is anout sustainment and running out the orher aupllies.  This is right way
to see the industrial transition - from what thenland naturally provodes limits
the effect economy can have at any goven conflict - but industrial production
means overwhelming - fill up the weatern front worhbweapons

choice: is about opportunity cost - the reason auction is best at previous bid,
is reason true cost if choice isnopportunity cost.  sonalways knownwhat you are
not doing 

aocial media - its few to few communication.  semi-publishing model that allows
for virality.  This is good mostly - policy conversatiosnopen up - the overton
window is smashed up a bit.  but it does bring the devise issues to the fore. 

but look at what we agree on.  

communities have divocose issues - but other communites around them dont care.
irish politics and poland?  Software enables *programmability*.  Programmable
company, society, person The key takeaways are

managvers and programmable company Making good decisions, programmable person
Democracy vs totalitarian - programmable society


Humane organisations, of a size / capital mix where everyone contributes
superlinearly, where everyone is chosing to be there because UBI, where open
working and where a humane social encironemnt exists. 

Democrqtic updates to (shared) software -
https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=33239256

Is hierarchy the best way to manage (large) organisations

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/08/30/world/europe/ukrainian-soldiers-weapons-front-line.html



Social medias product is xontent moderation
https://www.theverge.com/2022/10/28/23428132/elon-musk-twitter-acquisition-problems-speech-moderation

And this is a structureal problem - the distributed bature idea - backnin day
demon internet - put mini server in eachmpersons house rhen they are literally
serving owncontent - easier ti prosecute - but waaay harder to find - the
centralisation has fouled up - just realise that people are "promoting /
punlishing / hey look here" - content - and its section 230 that tries to
defiencommon carrier - but they are not common carrying.  they nee to just
transmit - not discover notnfikter not anything else.

oh dear

Moop and moneyball management hypothesis - that the way we manage companies
(business vs tech), hierarchy of orders coming down vs mission command and
reward incentives (promotion to manage more people, whichnkight not even be the
right way - imean manage more sickle users or manage a combine harvester
driver?)

How we evaluate effective bsuienss activity will chnage - linus torvalds and
email vs CEO 

this feeds into theory ifbthe firm

but what is the ideal size?

And whatbis idealnsize of country or a social grouo? 

And wht does devalueing a currency have to donwith thos? 

- avoid hierarchies above certain size and use more efficnet markets ?  mission
  and markets beats hierarchy and control

the democratic bet vs totalitarian bet

what does software have to donwothbthis ?

It is software literacy bs software as control and monitoring 


Leadership is bunk - leaders dont achieve great thing s because they are great
men - they are a focus for capital allocation (often because of unfair
conquering etc etc).  So if we imagine totally distributed world where only way
to get capital is to persuade then ... leadership reemerges but properly. Its
fair to say elon is better leader than cesear but i dont like it formpolitics

wow really good:

leadership is not bunknits just done really badly almsot everywhere.

https://twitchard.github.io/posts/2022-09-23-system-dynamics-schmystem-dynamics.html

in short software is a super power in the battle against compexity - esp
bureaucratci complexity

but it needs support from culture, market lead rules and infrastructure and
sonon - liberal democracy is so far the best approach we have found.
totalitarian bet 


Theory of firms

- capture of value otherwise would be enjoyed by the commons

- size is where the productivt frowth is less than the cost - but in smaller
  org prodictivity flgrowth is super-linear - and then flattens out so some
ideal is the opportunity cost of employing that person in another orgbsiatik  


[INTRO] cavern etc



is a DAO a programmable company? kinda 

Who should control a compnay and its use of those assets.

- a town planning guide in regulation form

- at low levels its employees.  but now thats policybwritten in code

- review of policy by regukators (see the code) 


10000bc to 1776 500x but still inly what the land prodyves agricultre - grow
rosk based crops not efficrncy but empires mean (!) peace and sicial systens
meanjng can geow efficeby crops

but trust that big landowner will feed you is what enables risk - but its not
freedom is it 


we have been working out how to run a society - an economy for 10000 years.
Its unlikely we shakl stop chnaging now - so what does software change about
how tonrun society ? totalitarian bet versus the depmcracto bet ? 

woth software we can ocercome allocation mechanism of pricing and markets and
keep everyone limited tonour elite needs

democrqti bet - software can increase ability for each individual to make their
capital allocation met, to make good decisions to self actualise and
tomcontribute ti the greater whole 

[ALL BORN EQUAL] THis is about infrastructure.  FOr cities it is urban
infrastructue.  but for societies it is more subtle - 

[SECOND ORDER] Decentralised decision making - decentralised resource
allocation.  Local government, more democracy, change in capitalism / capital
structure / allocation.


[CHINA TOTAL BET]


constitutions and chnagr anarchitecture --------------

There is only vlaue in infrasruecture or consitition chnage if it helps solve
the mission, better build us 

- same for rewrite tech and same for devolution 

- the question then is what is the right size of the firm???  coase

software as new co-ordination - SoPPy - newnpolitical action 



Military 5th gen doctrine -------------------------

https://youtu.be/NFqwQlM_g1Q Alan Stephens - Airpower Reborn fifth geneeation
thinking : Tempo, decision making contest , strategic Paralysis, knowledge
dominace, operational manouecere 

this is leadership since Caeser.  But now we see democracy and devolved
decision making learning what previously one guy and a hierarchy could do.

The future of the most hierarchiacal of all organisations is mission lead and
decentralised.  The software mind.

What the hierarchu is for is to differenticte between a arny and a mob 

The emergent thinking of the software enabled organisation is the software mind 

death of project management is a scene of illiterates requireingiterates to
anabke illiterate ti send controls tomother illiterates without either reading
code or understanfing it - trying ot bend data to their flawed understanding


Chinas totalitarian bet and nasal insufflation.  A society managed well enough
to donthat a thousand years agao 

explocit leads to disxussion - see chilie referendum / consitution define free
speech ! 

these are ideals 

more aunlight means more democracy means better decisions (usually)

Judging as software is really looking for supra-national network effects - see
ben evans on Heros outside USA - structure was wrong to encourage use of hit
shows to grow brand.  Software literacy, explicit, programmable company

What advantages does a literate company have?  -----------------------

- Software forces explicit. 

We live in a built environment. Built military. Built urban.  Built rules and
processes for society and companies.

SOftware is really good at rules and processes.  Words are. Symbols.  But that
makes the system *explicit*. See Noam CHomsky on ANdrew Marr - if you did not
believe it you would not be in the position of power.

But ... the dichotomey is coming - software will make companies flexible, fast
to respond, data driven processes. It will also expose their decision making to
scrutinty and to change.  So what will make them successful in the 5th gen
decision making envionemnt, will also make them, vulnerable to criticism.  Make
them not need managers ? Split managementn into policy vs implementation.



Society ------- The strongman idea - democracy is fighting against that.  It is
making everyone their own owner of their own part of the communal decision
making effort.

ethereum is trying to replace courts / contract law with a piece of software.
Its trying to make law as code.  Not a terrible idea but why not just have code
as part of a contract.  And if we think we can fix dictaotrships with some
code, well... yeah.

ALl wealth is energy wealth.  10,000 BC - 2M people on planet 1776 AD - about 1
Bn people.  We had, with same energy supply, increased efficnecy to 500X

Now if money is a claim on future priductive capacity.  is that capacity
measured in energy
- and is that energy source going to increase or will we get better at using
  it?

End of fractional reserve banking - crypto currency will break that but the
productive capacity still exists.

How do we allocate money - imagine one bank, it cannot create more money than
the one shop deposits.  So fractional creation is just how to cool down
inflation as prioductive capcity increases.  One assumes that can be done via
some other mechanism - not sure which one? needs to be decentralised. what is
productive capacity - what is wealth creation vs rent?

which one makes more efficnet use of energy?


if we can vote democratically why can we not vote on how businesses work We do
- by buying their services.




-- architecture and robotic construction

-- change all policies in a large company.  Now change the underlying APIs so
the policy can read the data,then wht you have is a programmable company But
you have now made everything explicit.  See Volkswagen software chanvges. Can
we see the actual commits?

-- a programmable company can provide dashboard.  Choice of dashboard matters
(see car dashboard reflects the org structure.  But if the dashboard is all
that really matters changing the dashboard can affect org structure.

-- lawyers will be the interface layer between business desire / opportunity
and configuration.  But if a company is 'configurable', then why have
executives? Just change the code?  [Death of management]


management is a co ordination position in midst of chaos. But co-ordination is
much more easily done between unit and and software 

-- journalism View this as data labelleing for society.  But that implies
jounrnalism has a place in a company. It is propaganda if done by mgmt.  What
does it look like / how does a large company make independant journalism It
will be a seperate power base? Not exactly equivalent because journalism used
to have access to masses that politicians did not - Facebook twittere broke
that.  But jounrlaiism in companies will be first important step towardsd
democracy in companies.

-- but as we see changes in one part of life (a dashboard showing all costs etc
for the business we work in, we are likely to demand similar access to local
policitcs) symbiotic evolution.

-- the metahuman jounrlism and data labelling - the "common shared corpus".
meta human - see Stble diffusion art - guided by all work of humans previously
- it is just faster not creative? Stable Diffusion has shown the explosion of
art and value open source has.

Future is open because the unlocking of total social wide value is greater.
Implication is that is open works best for software, and world is becoming
software, then open works best for people, companies and society.

Its a conjecture. A bet.  cf Chinas totalitarian bet [FOSS] [CHINA TOTALITARIAN
BET]


Ask the questions (pace the danger of industriual bathwater) New intersting
questions

- [CAPITAL STRUCTURE] structure of companies and capital allocation (why is
  Elon rich)
- [URBAN DESIGN] Urban design, 49 slaves and energy transiation / all pverty is
  energy poverty
- higher functioning urban software economy - needs instuitutions - new
  institutions - software instituions. No I dont know what they will look like.
(law (see policy in companies), journalism, data cleanliness / ownership) Just
as urban design is a choice, so is capital allocation and resource allocation
Why is 50% of resource allocation in dicatorships? Why is capital labour
under-valued?

Will software-as-capital change this

Programmable company, society and person, moop SRE - what you get whne you ask
a softwar engineer to desing a release process.  What do you get when you ask a
softaee engineer to design a company? A society?  If I am right about literacy,
then companies will be deisnged by software engineers. Society wull be

Moop and public epidemiology ONly flowing solution I can see is all PPI data is
public, published, but commercial use is licensed and costs - and see cottage
industry of people trying to get people to pay for illegal useage.

UBI most dramatic transition away from current capitilism ever conceived.  Not
sure if how it will work But likely to see dramatic shift on compensation
arrangments

Size of firms Coase - but yardstick. If firm has internal "no pouching"
arrangement, it is too large and an internal hiring market could exist.  THis
is pretty much every firm over 5000 people.  yes!! 



Programmable society

There is the fear that we will dance to the tune of Cambridge Analytica and
Ad-men But there is an immune reaction, competition and more importantly, the
power of truth.



* moop

* greater complexity higher productive society - also fairer soxiety. That
  massive capital allocation unlikely to be the best solution (chinese cities)

* end of big artists (but still big songs)

* programmable person company and society (democracy and agency - persuasion
  not coercion)

UBI means end of coercion and need for persuasion. 

chnages how capital can posisbky be allocated as sinple pwnership of capital is
not enough - everyone ekse has subsistence capital

a distibuted power grod is our only hope for survival but also chnages how we
will negotiate a society ?

- enabkes handling far far grearer comllexity
- see that in microservices and programmabke compnay

Microservices is sharding software (that is the virtualmoverlay of a companies
processes and hence is the company) in the shape of the processes and nodes of
ancompany - not a monolith.  And this is forcing a reverse conways law -
businesses organise along shape of its software - this means as decbetelised
software (because it inevitably is produced remotely as there are no or few
coders in the bsuienss) 

one day it will evolve and grow naturally - coders enbedded in bsuoness 


- also see that in dmeocracy - its not voting wvery few years.  Its an engaged,
  local issue.

Higher oerforming economy (to outso the totalitairna bet) needs 



A so iety aimed at the greatest productivity of all its cotizens - implies
wealth sharing to at oeast the UBI level, implies MOOP like individual life
coaching, implies more leaders leading fewer people, but co-ordinating actoss
greater numbers 

A swarm society

Not lions. Locusts.

Only software and internet can manage the complexity levles needed (se roman
insitutions)

see this at all levels

The theory if rhe firm applies to aociety as well - to any orgbaistion and
increasing the ability to contract, or in the case if FOSS to freely contribute
anyway, then we have abikity to have smaller and amaller co ordinated work.


Also - programmabke people companies and socieites all interact like brains and
body.  For example most companies now have some view on carbon / climate chnage
but theybhave not had to expalin that or build that in. 

also - see architected sustems as military systems working together for a
mission - built strategy

as a compnay younare anbuilt strategy - trying to chnage that or being vague ir
uncertain causes huge problems - its why founder led iften works ao well. at
least there is not the devate 


Tournaments and one prize dominate our thinking. And how we arrnage our society
and our organisations.  Somethings cannot be shared (ie marriage) but most
things can (decision making in organisatiins - see voting)

energy theory of value, rwanda and fridges and just how much energy we can use
- capital infrastucture enabkes better use at margin but so does intelligent
use - software enabkes us to share more easily? 


aoftware is capital - build some

privacy not the point - its the use to which data us put - see medical HIPAA or
pay me formmy sata 

The enegy transitio  and the politics transition 

- how much energy do we all need (rwanda) - os it feasible?
- western soc should lead the way in energy use because we have the cushion
- 49 slaves
- but the below which we start chnage how world is (car use etc).  how much of
  this is software

- the new world is one designed by a software engineer - a world designed by
  and for software loterate people - who can model and adjust the workd sonit
can be iterated over.

the software mind is the mind that can not just design a sustainablenworld -
its the mind that can agree to and accept it.

Size of a Firm / how to run a firm theory of firm - why shoukd not regulations
apply to internal market of company?  see bidding up salaries for internal jobs 

So lots of business in a box (pyscriptUI and HR and SOPpy and ... just because
software forms can be smaller firms.)

* Deep State, DOminic Cummings, open democracy and its not all a disaster
  Cummings on organisational failure (cf Civil Service) This ties into Deep
State, into accountability and sunlight.  But also into this sam ething plays
out in giant corporations every day.  And govenrment is just the giant-est corp
there is.

-> more openness / sunlight improves quality of decision making, leading to
better decsions in dmeocracy.  But only if decisions are open.  See DOminic
Cummings views on gov decisions.  Complexity is hard, but at least software can
handle lots of data, which is often mistekn for complexity.  simulation is then
easier.

Software and openness means open data, means a constant feedback loop on fixing
errors. Which means better decisions and instituions that can learn


But simple models and visualisation is useful - and will grow as more policy is
digitised and made exposed to sunlight.  Deepstate is not a bad thing.

But software literacy, leads to programmable companies, which can lead to AB
testing of actions which can lead to real-world empirical models which leads to
better decision making.

My view - people need feedback. Too many people, too many layers away from the
real movers and shakers and people just ... stop. Remove most of the
bureaucracy, with software, and you need fewer people, so more facetime.


#################################################################

##################################################################
* Intro Software Literacy Just the basics.

its not a technology compare iterative develolment of steam engiens as
conquering niches to computing

maybe its true for silicon but the interesting question for aoftware is not
faster faster.  we have kotnhit a point where software can carry its own fuel.

Fairness and overall production
- I am risk intolerant - as are most people. the investment to be more
  productive is a risk.  and the social context makes a difference.  startups
and BCs - but mostly there is a voting / control over resources.  do we feel
like we have control? 

This is my final conjexture - that taking us to a higher performing economy
like Rome means better instirutions - we know this on the totalitarian bet, but
the even higher level is making a society that has everyone willing abke to
build their own capital moat. a society of entreprenuers. a software loterate
society trading as equals 


Cycling, slaves, democracy and manifesto ---------------------_
https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=32616666

Everything is going poker ------------------------- Professionals arent
winnifnpoker tiurnaments anymore.  the best are losing out to the second beat
amateurs whonhappen to get lucky See also pubkiahers trial and the same
situation for beatsellers - no one knows which oens to pick. Even Dalai Lama is
not popukar.

The long tail of media 

Implications cor structure of democracy - needs to be negotiated, bottom up,
fewer heroes going to save us all.  In fact it would be good idea not to have a
presidential electikn but instead vote uowards from local level. 

Top down gets big militaries and so on. but infrasturcutre can be buikt by
contract. its just more comlocated but software can smoothbthat put. 

cycleways are probably the most obvious "If I had 40 servants I would not love
like this" -
https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/carltonreid/lets-rescue-britains-forgotten-1930s-protected-cyc/posts/3493962

* Judging as software is really looking for supra-national network effects -
  see ben evans on Heros outside USA - structure was wrong to encourage use of
hit shows to grow brand. 


How we structure society matters ------------------------
- software mind goves new choices ?
- democracy and literacy help 
- chnage how we woukd arrnage 40 servents
- facts vs opinions and odea of "commonly considered food"



Asking the Interesting questions -------------- (Note on Ben Evans)

The valuation of firms is based on are they traditional industry or are they
suddenly a software firm with thise sweet near zero marginal costs.

Well no. Obviously outside if pure software licenses the marginal costs mount,
and for SaaS companies (even like Facebook or Google) the anciallry costs are
huge (basically invent regulation and society on line please - which is why
Zuckerberg keeps asking please regulate me)

But rhere is a concisrent attempt like WeWork to be valued as something
soecial. No obviously everyone wishes they were soecial but at somepoint my
conjecture is that there is something aoecial about software.



If software is *just* engineering like building construction, then we build it
once and we walk away.  Walmart or Tescos have a dependancy on building
construction, and even like Mcdonalds famously might be a real estate company
thinking its  aburger company,  but the questions that matter are not software
questions

But if software is literacy. If the whole of a compnay can (in theory) be
re-written in one day, then the questions stay sfotware.  Imagine a store that
can be re-configured at night.  AN extra storey added, the entrance moved.
Then each day the building construction feeds into the other relevant
questions.

This is to me the impact of software.  Companies are made from software like
buildings made from broicks.  The virtual overlays and onforma and controls the
real.

And the first company in each industry to successfully combine the flow of
software, to make each decision point software literate, is *assumed* to have
advantages.  

There are limits.  You (probably) cannot move from being a car company to a
real estate company.  But if you can change yourself quickly and easily, maybe
you have industry advantages.

THis is why it is an interesting question to ask is Tesla a software company or
a car company.

When is a compnay a software compnay ans when not be evans - nu argument is
diff berween wework and tesla is one is suffised with software *decisions* -
itnis software literate ans so using advantgaes - some of it as leverage in
internet access but some will be just more edfocne t - see google vs barclays

so a software company sells software - like windows or oracle.  And software
compnaybquestions dominate

but a software service compnay sells a service for say a HR for lawyers

but thats a lawnindustry question

But people try and value companies as software compnaies - thye mean software
literate 


Software is not so ething software does to you, its so ething you do with
software. at every lebel. and rhats requirw  literacy 

* Second Order consequences.

** programmable company

- if it is possible to program the whole thing (think api access person.filter)
  then managing it *must* be coding. Anything else is hilariously inefficient
- what is a company? two things - the 

** modelling, monitoring, mentoring

Use of models and monitors and democracy to decide best course if action as
ipposed ti political networks - democracy todsy tries this.  At worst we get
inefficnecies like every oart of a plane made in different states - at least
thats fair vs effocent whilst making resolience and improved decision making

- so only coders are managers
- so the barrier to being a manager is literacy
- so it will look like newspaepr office.  Editors discuss the stories.
- but the complexity level is huge (see microservices) and will need data
  analysis
- so the possible moves will be huge - but like proteins it is a manageable
  solutuion
- mapping as a means to discuss impacts
- internal journlism
- democracy unleashed by jounrlaism pointing out silly things.  But investors
  will support journalists on the big stories.
- companies already thoeretically seperated into changing the company and
  running the company, but this may well become clearer distinction.  Amazon
warehouse staff vs coders.

** coders are the new managers

If we dont want texhnical people to stop being texhnical when having to
"manage" then build a compnay that can be managed with code.

Why do people want to "move into management"

- more control (over their own work)
- more control over others 
- more money
- more security 

Most of which can be solved via voting? sounds like needs for trades unions 


** Slow death of management class

   - deathbof project management https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=32647781
     my theory of management - checking the smooth production of needed output.
This is basically reviewing code and checkingmplanned tickets are in order.
And just writing about it (journalism) this os what project managers are
supposed to do - so if thats managwnebt what di mangwrs do? 
   - Shit jobs theory (paying off middle class / UBI)
   - {DeathOfProjectManagement}
   - administration and co-ordination simple replacmeent
   - modelling and monitoring is a software endeavor.
   - most modelling done now barely rises above an out of date spreadsheet, and
     hardly ever touches even standard deviations
   - so management becomes a coaching activity - maybe supervision  of
     standards.
   - why let allocation of significant resources be lower down hierarchy?
   - is this in favour of totaltitarian bet
   - how do we choose to allocate resources, and monitor the results? democracy
   
   - strategy is built strategy
   - so the company builders are the key. - coders.
   - who controls the coders?
   - unionisation, democracy,
   
Democracy matters -----------------

Democratic company ------------------ Stakeholders can use regulation. This is
about providers of capital deciding on most effective forms of allocation.

Labour capital and financial capital

Level 0 - non tradesunions Level 1 - trades union LEvle 2 - 

The veil of capitalism ---------------- Like veilmof ognorance but ot feeda
into why people think that Jeff bezos earning 27millionntimes an employee is
... not fair but acceptable

Why is structuring things that way good? why does ownershipmconfer contolr?

why does not Einstein own everything? What about Linux

what about Fritz Haber ? it still is powerful firm.  Why is current struxture
of firms the only one? Germany had a differwnt one but lost the industrial
wars. Maybe thats why.  Move too far from "what worked" and likely to fail
completely 

But does that counter the totalitarian bet?  What struxture can we find that is
going to work, ans why did the induatial revolution work.  Is there any
unviabke rocket shape once younhave enough jet? 

Wjat does orbit look like in this context - and is stabilisation feedback and
aerodynamics importnat? 


History of industrial revolution, not just democracy.

chinas totalitarian bet conjecture: ML models of society will work better than
ee expcet - and this will affect organisations and politics

Counter-Totalitarian bet ------------------------

Our bet is that like economic management, you cannot donthis centrally.Too down
wont work - and thisnis not just for an exonomy but for a compmay - the
complexity of software is not just a benefit but a

- military jet fighters in saudi and USA. 

companies become too complex (third order - smaller companies and more clarity
over conglomeratisation) and will become smaller and more focused.  There is
some theory of the firm here as well

But if we bet on democracy for our politics, our defence.  Why are we not
betting on it for 50% of our resource allocation.  Are CEOs genetically
superior to the rest of us?

massive advatnage of co-ordinated arms (which is why large companies work well
- for now!)  but co-ordinated is hard and requires communication and awareness.
internal jounrlaism

* corruption, corrusion and software

A programmable company is a *transaprent and visible* company.  THis will
obviously hit problems.  Spy organisations will have to adapt to this as well
Bribery will adapt in other ways. (not the McWiter brothers rolodexes)

* Programmable person

Software, Bots and personal lives just having a server makes a diff Bots and
programmability - this will make enourmkous diff ApI ans rate likiting and so
on we will get used to it - cotrage industries slaves,machines, organising our
urban lifestyles.  centaurs Communication for every adult on planet MOOP

* Programmable society

Laws, see the model.  Agree /se the impact Just as iphone tracking will
transform people and companies, simply knowing everything everyhwhere all at
once will enable ridiculously useful planning THis is a point in favour of the
totalitarian bet.  We just have to work at it.

Is AI going to change everything?  Nah. Its big, but big as in SQL, not big as
in literacy.  Firstly forget AGI.  Imagine if we did make a human like
intelligence.  THen speed it up a million times.  Would you like to be speed up
a million times? we now what a human shut indoors just thinking with minimal
interactions does - its not pretty.  

SO make this AGI have millions more interactions.  what can they pick up and
discovedr - essentially this is millions of experiments.

ANd this is what we are describing as the meta-human,the moop. Daily
interactions with smartphones feeding back into a data store.

We are about to kick off a global epidemiolgicla experiment.  Managed well it
will benefit all of humanity.

And we dont need some god like AGI in the middle.  We just need the principles
of medical science - empirically driven, with the best interstes of the
individual as its moral core.






scenes:


policy packaging
- individual political advertising - actuakky not a terrible idea - still needs
  regukatuin and of course a fully open model (see tubes wayer economics model)

What is ML good at and what is it bad at
- same thing as human expertese.
- need immediate feedback loops. Why market making in houses is hard and slow
  and shares is wrapped up.  so find one - what can younootimise for? 
- feedback
- non random features / calid encironemt / lots of opportinities
- timely feedback 
- deliberate practise



* Conclusion

Software literacy is a thing.  It will change companies and societies A
programmable commpany will operate at speeds undreant of.  But it will be like
Jet fighter - building the company that is bigger and faster will be a
nightmare - but once it is done you can build many many more and cheaeper
levels.  Once the trains are built and monitored then it just runs.  But it
does one thing.

However we should expect accurate costs.  This might mean a degredation of
expectation in society

Democracy is a thing too.  Democracy thrived and needed mass literacy. So
people could learn and trust The new democracies will need mass software
literacy - same learning and trusting

"A programmable company is what you get when you ask a software engineer to
design a company."

It wont look like anything else we are used to.

Hints
- microservices, swarms, AB testing, requirements and capabilities.


Introduction ------------

say-what-you-are-going-to-say

Cavern introduction Cabinet office

The explosion of software literacy.

- software is a new form of literacy

This book is based on a (reasonable) conjecture - that software is best viewed
as a new form of literacy.

This is ok - we can see the suprficial similarities - but its the downstream
impacts that are the most interesting, and more controversial.

software literacy, comouter science and electronic engineering

the hard stuff is between compteru dcience (algorithms, languages compilers)
and EE (something forbthen to runnon)

this is not software literaxy intue main.  expressing a flow in software is not
same as building an socillscope from parts 




why is tech disrupting (appleninto banks, new banks in uk, amazon into
groceries, google into x) because the advatnages of software kiteracy are so
great


 * Democracy again

look at Modern monetary theory - gov is just partnof whole economy

so why is the resource allocation of gov under (rheoretical) democratic contorl
but the allocation of private capital not? why is private capital not under
control of the demos? it is partly as regukations and trqdition 

but why / why not have those in the edge make the allocation decisions ? 


conjecture: ML models of society will work better than ee expcet - and this
will affect organisations and politics We could bot do inage classification
because we did not have millions of labelled images of cats and not enough
comouting power

The problem of aociwty / polirics is loved experience - and as we captire
(surveill) more of it we will have more reliabke data fir --- Seldonism ??

But what are the scores / feedback loop? Constant polling? ideology is simpler
... dangerous 



Open democracies will have an advantage in that free soeech in johrnalism is a
labelling probkem

that ckass docides and elites will have to decide what to do - triumph of the
socialst

Privacy social media and AI

The whole point is democracy - we are all connected so if the only wqy we can
spread is to share then we all get a vote for what is important

cf referendum - britain will really xoncentrate on the text id the next
referendum

texhnolofy has inherent anti-centralising ans anti-rentier - but it is
corrupted by a system 

baby of capitalism with bathwater 




Democracy and companies ----------------------- Glassdoor has a paradox at its
heart. Yes we all want to have honest reviews of corporate culture, and
anonymity is probably the only way to get that. Except that how does anyone
trust an anonymous post ?  The only way to get around this is some impossible
to imagine global regulatory chnage where companies may never take action
against negative non-anonymous postings.  I am not sure how to overcome this
massive information asymmetry that corporations have against us

the issue is if i stand up ans say "this strategy is crap" basically I lose my
job.  But if we vote then a lot of issue get chnaged. 

The democratci company conjecture --------- We westerners have satisified view
that democracy has advantages inherent 
- i agree (chinese totalitarian bet) but if so then there are advantages for
  democracti xompnaies

- free flow of information - just discovering any source if data is hard ket
  alone "whats being planned" 

conjetire: a journkistic arm for conpanies will procode major benefits (and
unleash horror)

Over sampling extreme ecents ----------------------__- another social media
issue https://www.worksinprogress.co/issue/biases-the-wrong-model/



Scene setting -------------

scenes:

silicon revolution: humans and computers making "centaurs" better together
Communication for every adult on planet

End of the mass market / long tail.  This will affect democracy (which scene:
just selling packages of policies)

policy packaging
- individual political advertising - actuakky not a terrible idea - still needs
  regukatuin and of course a fully open model (see tubes wayer economics model)

privacy and not privacy

organisations, humans, tribes, politics, democracy

double down on democracy - is not the same as double down on the Status Quo
Democracy is a means to ensure change in sufficinet time THe old argument of
strong man needed is an fallacy - because there has not (yet) been an example
of a string man taking over from a demoacracy - they all appear better than
periods f stagnation.

social media =======



Bad investment decisions ----------------------- Most VCs aee holding back hige
funds in fear.

But what they should fear is bad business invesmtn decisions - see would
Ininvest in columbis 

(take a chance on fusion - send asanta Maria)

But crypto like bitcoin and uber and airbnb are somobviously bad ideas

I relate this to urban design.  Feankly good urban designnis simple - less cars
mostly (strong towns, walkable city etc) 

but none of this is profitable ajd spectactular and big shiny orojects

And same goes for software. What we want are simple open things. things that
are vakuabke but public. No one gets rich owning central park.

Software is like loteracy. its not something that is valuabke if you keep it
tonyiurself . 

NOtes on cryptocurrency ----------------------- PoW bad PoS - interesting.  But
still the libertarian bent has  problems - IRL governments are legitimate
trading partners and bring value to idealogically pure Trust - well the problem
with having a digital currency outside of the control of the government is the
government has the guns. And if they dont abuse their power then 99% of the
problems And the common refrain is "what if the government does fiscal actions
I dont approve of". Welcome to democracy. I have a list of things my government
does I dont approve of.  So far none of them have crossed the line into "well
its armed revolution now".  At least not yet.

So what is the value - if actual currency is easier solved (and trusted) what
does it bring.  It brings local governance? But that can also be solved without
this underpinning.

I still think its fascinating, it shows how organisations can evolve and be
software literate entirely.

But I remain a bitter no-coiner




Software Literacy and Second-order consequences
===============================================

Ever since 1776 there has been a string of transfor


- Everything is run by software - and software illiteracy will be as
  debilitating to people, compnaies and socoeotes as language illiteracy


social media - its the piblic square and those shouid be pubkic / owned /
controled / answerabke / regukated 

- coders are the new managers (the typing pool takes over the Boardroom)

was designing the company now is supoorting and coaching the developers (books
- porter vs google manager)

Mgmt has a co-ordination rooe but software very good at that

so if SRE is what uiu get when you ask a software engineer to design a xxx what
fonyou get when you asknone to design a company

soppy

but touches on cirruption ans  corrusion - mgmt is needed when the
realmunderlying activity of the company cannot be written down because it is
different tonwhat people say

jim crow (and why americans love their guns) 



(also its about driving a car - guiding. it is easier to have one person make
the decisions butbwhat if they make bad decisions - democracy is about removing
them  - but what if we just have agreed models and see where things are going
and ... democracy is not the end poitn here. it about guiding a society or an
organisation.  which is why inam excited about idea of breaking out of UK Ltd
company model because it aloows experimentation in democracy at some decent
sxale)



- double down on democracy (if the machines do as they are told, who needs
  slaves?) Chinas totalitarian bet

- but that implies more aharing of wealth Sharing? Why this form of capitalism

- corruption and corrusion in organisations - its everywhere Is capitalism
  eveworking? All profits went to traders.

corrupt corroded cononerate

loss of foxus

secondary conjectures and implications --------------------------

Lo-code and No-code is a joke

The virtual world makes measuring the real world possible, and at greater
detail than we imagine

The social media furire is really one of sudden access to data - like London
pea souper cleqring out

conversations online are terrible - but they were offline we just coukd ignore
it.

Twitter has *exposed* - celebrities are less glamorous because we read what
they actually think - and this applies to politicians too.  thatcher being
defenestrated seeems more dignified becauae we got filtered through news
reporters and press offices.  it was the same features however.

So this is just seeing clearer - pea souper blown away.  and we can either
dealnworh it or put the pea souoer backndown (and this allow control and
corruption tonthise elites with better access

online reviews. Yiur friendss will happily abuse your friendship to make a
profot offline (see tipperware parties and all pyramid schemes)

The digital mirror ------------------

The virtiak world is reflecting back on us our world and at vaster scale - and
the problems we see are ones of degree not quality - they always existed we
were just not dealing with it

Think of it as civil roghts era.

We shall see this thoroughout as we find industries and unfairness that is
revealed and we have to decide what if anything to do about it

my take is in the end we all want to moce to fairer workd - and we shall.
advice is donthe radical now because in thirty years it will be obvious 

digital activity leaves nonwheee to hide.

important thing is to focus eegukation on the real menaingful thing.  Freedom?

Chinese totalitarian bet - our bet is on freedom through respectful politelness

"""The dilemma that China's leaders have is that they need an educated
workforce, capable of logical and critical thinking, but they can't stop that
workforce thinking critically outside
work."""https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=32643572



class war ---------

"""class war has always been between those who work for a living and those who
own for a living"""

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Share_Our_Wealth

coders are new managers -----------------------

Look at Peter Dricker and the google eight rules.  what a bunch of pussies


- software is used to *run* companies day to day (algo trading is affecting
  liquidity ?)

- so compnaies are basically versioned - coders are new managers. managers were
  building a compnay deisnging its processes 

- not remore working but async working

- loans as example - now decision is based on credit score.  this is not a hige
  difference from chinees social score (its whatvis unofficially kept anyway)

- Biggest implication is trolley problem. We will have to decide (and decide
  hiw ti decide) all thise horrivle edge cases.  This will get nasty in
democeacy, especially as people will try and use code in politics

- we will see many issues currntly seen in crypto - what oracle do we use to
  trigger some situation in code? how do we habdle the "oh we did not mean
that" problem 

- ooen source society (segue to society)




The software mind is the meta mind of annorganisation  - hownit thinos (slow
fast AI) and how that chnages in a world of software literacy



Neuromancer and Demon internet - the cirtualmconnecting to the physical - this
is the dream but it is also a noghtmare of control - the current beneficiaries
and managers are due to lose out 

there is no such thing as a free market / software socialism - the virtual
workd measures and raises to a level of visibility - thisnwill disrupt
corruption and corrosion (in companies and leseqhere )


Softeare and ghe paved road --------/---------------///
https://www.infoq.com/news/2017/06/paved-paas-netflix/

Within the Netflix technical stack, functionality provided by the PaaS includes
microservice Remote Procedure Calling (RPC), service discovery and
registration, operating system, application runtime, configuration, metrics,
logging, tracing, dashboards, alerts and stream processing.

At some point you need these as business building blocls - cloud is not servrrs
its services thst worl in sensble ways - ifs not putting saas togethe rwoth
ifttt its codijg reql apis and real data. it feels different 

90% of it will looknlike from people import person - select all persons with
contract > 1 year

This is viaion of fitute company - all the siloed functions of company (hr,
finance, etc) and access to roam across then. jupyer notevook style


leadership ---------- https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hugh_Dowding

"""Beyond the critical importance of the overall system of integrated air
defence which he had developed for Fighter Command, his major contribution was
to marshal resources behind the scenes (including replacement aircraft and air
crew) and to maintain a significant fighter reserve, while leaving his
subordinate commanders' hands largely free to run the battle in detail."""

This is definition of management by rolled up detail - focus on code reviews
and Jiras. That tells younwhether younare heading to your goals and what needs
to be adjusted (monitoring throughput, inouts and outputs, in prod and in dev)

it is also why project mgmt is not a thing. its managwment. and if there is
more pllitics (ie find out about the funding the new plans erc, then upper mgmt
is failing to spread those around)


I think this is a re-work of "Chinas Totalitarian Bet". So there is a theory
that the reason Middle East armies are basically expensive and crap is that the
elites of the Saudis and Kuwaitis and Iraqis have loads of money but are
despots and won't trust anyone but the most loyal / ethnically familial close
with real power. So the tank battalions are lead not by talented colonels but
by a cousin of the royal family. Spend six million training a nobody from
nowhere Tom Cruise to be a fighter pilot? Make all the princes pilots. Let a
sergeant train with a Anti Tank weapon. No way. They might aim at the cousin in
his tank.  This is the opposite of the (more) meritocratic USA. Decision making
is pushed downwards and the coherent mission is aligning all.  It is worth
noting that a lot of ISIS / al-quida success is attributed to having to let go
of this attitude - their central driving mission meant everyone was loyal, this
decision making and training could be pushed right down into cells. Anyway I am
not an expert here.  The point being that Totalitarian regiemes have a hard
time making militaries that are flexible and responsive. And that rolls over to
factories and civil servants etc.  Now the guardian writer Jon (?) and up with
Chinas Totalitarian Bet - china knows this but thinks software and the
surveillance state changes the game enough that either no-one can get out of
line enough before their digital footprint catches them (again see al-qeueda)
or that they can just give direct orders to be followed like Amazon warehouse
packers and that will allow such flexibility and change.  So yeah mass
education was about teaching the masses to think. And the people in say
Victorian Britain who said this will end their way of life were actually right
- fortunately for us.  The question now is can software replace our thinking?
  Can we all just do as we are told ? Will a society of drones be worth living
in or even be productive enough to survive? And will the opposite, a more
democratic more meritocratic and more fair and generous society be more
productive innovative and worthwhile. I say Yes to the last and no to all
others.

Innovation and spread of ideas and education --------------------- Oil and gas
- utilities because rhe stabikity if supply keeps us alive balanced on spinnign
plates

migration off tondecentralised solar enrgey likely sesnible step. cost will be
enormous


More now will balancing plates - needs education and marketplace if ideas -
google and similar will be a utility ? Finding people - google and facebook are
about discovery

what is education? learning new ideas and concepts? forced not easy. 

UBI - how manybpeople wouldnleave current jobs if won lottery? SonUBI will
donwjat? 




Changes in compmaies --------------------

- Project management 

{DeathOfProjectManagement}

Project management is promarily programme mgmt - co-ordination between
different projects. Its not some clever methodology that will make the current
single project magically work better.  You can do that with a decent todo list
(hence joel spolsky)

The provlem is co-ordinating between projects to a oid catastrpphe - see the
thing abiut tubnel under airprirt that was too small

You *could* donthis by careful planning - but in software world its simpler
easier more eliable to write tests and stuc out - this explains growthbof
mixroservices (which match bausiness functions)

expand to inclide - large baujess taxonomies and service mapping (shoukdnbe
managing 1000s of movroservoces

so a companu that cannot introspect its current state is goign to need project
mgmt - but onbthat can, can test next state releases and so on can make
progress - without prject mgm - and that is proceless

Micro sevices - stop trying to control it in one persons head - the
abstractions are too large to be useful microservices show the actual useful
units if process / acticity - and are hiw business should arenage itself and
they need to be manages not woth "thats bobs area" bur with groahviz ans
software - need to become software literate

THis change from 'bobs area does that so I should talk to bob' and more
detailed understanding and monitoring is probably the biggest change
- companies become more machine and less network of people.

Imagine this is ship-building vs ship-day-to-day running.  Given all strategy
is built strategy, the leverage lies in the design of the ship.

A future is where the ship can evolve to meet changing need and understanding.
THis is desperately important - avoids waterfall.  But how feasible is it?  How
does democracy come intoit.  Why cant you change the code? openness, modelling.

If its totaitarian, then only the shipbuilders get to understand the systemic
imapcts.  If its an open ship, everyone can.  And the ship can evolve safely.

that is the answer to the totalitarian bet.  If everyone is in control, you can
scale. if only a few people are then they cannot scale.  And it is the same
reason hierarchies wont work.

Evolution needs democracy.

Democracy --------- https://polite.technology/preview

https://www.nceo.org/article/research-employee-ownership

I think that the arreival of voting on features will transform the democracy of
companies - if we all vote we all have reaource allocation control (so some
peoplee get more votes - thats going to be interesting)  but alos
whomundersrand the implixations

this requires discussion and likely micro services 

Content moderation ans Robert E Lee ---------------------- We are aearching for
the glovally acceptable minimum set of content guidelines

Its goin to be tough - but it will need to be coherent - enough to write rules
and not use AI!

We are aeeing re-evaluation of confederare symbols - they were rebels after all
- and one of those global minimums is likely to be equality before the law.  

the most likely global miminum is un human rughts declration

then content moderation stops and younsimply become a punlisher - why bother
moderating content - if yiu are selecting contrnt to show over other content
that makes yiu .. a publisher? 

Even nazis need a safe space --------------

Everyones lived experience gets then to a certain set of opinions in life - and
while almsot everyone is willing to chnage they have a himan need to be
recognised where they are and be part if the conversation ans conversion

because internt and social media and gloaboisation is requireing us to find new
common ground - what is and is not acceptable

conclusion ---------- We will see a new mind. Faster fairer if we xhoose
tonnake it so

we worrybabout democracy backsliding - but I thinknit has a bright fuutre (70
ywars old) and software, freely abailableninformation and the correct labelling
of sata for the Slow AI of society will lead to a gloriuos future 

software-as-literacy-some-conjectures

mybpolitics
- prefer pragmatism over odeology, "nothing is agreed till everything is
  agreed, but see what the market likes first"


history-if-anerican-capitalism
aggregatijg-human-curation-and-activity-who-owns-it-who-benefits



socialism-and-democracy managers code-and-law

privacy we see contextual and personalised ads generally push back against
personalised ads howeber apple CSAM mechnaism (homomorphic encroyion on client)
was unable to over come "privcy" concerns because its nit about someone knowing
what i have on my machine, its about doing something with it
- the ohone in my hand scanned me and then did something i dont like. even if
  it dis not "tell" anyone
- it still did it

Also geopolitical - usa bana tiktok, china ensures they access to data.  this
is useful data only if it is shared medical research - not blackmail

the solutionnhere is medical levels - in the best interesrs if the citizen
(woth few exceptions such as CSAm)

The price of fame -----------------

if provacy is removed, and instead the proce of exploting the infomration is
raised, then only those who have a dispropritionate amount of influence will be
worth exploiting (advertising) and ... well.

The end of advertising? 



literacy-and-philosophy literwcy-and-surviving-deatruxtion
elon-destroy-all-monster-companies secrecy-and-privacy
new-forms-of-organisation software-literacy
spacex-solved-nasas-organisation-problem elon-and-nasa ai-black-box-avoidance
star-wars cont chinas-bet chinas-totalitarian-bet
democracy-s-anti-totalitarian-bet politicians-lie
challenge-of-scale-for-bank-of-england facebook-problems-again
technology-abs-building-pyramid thinking-about-project-mama-event outline
software-literacy-an-example coders-as-managers why-openness-and-democracy-wins
people-management

- automate most beaureuavracy 
- except the creationnof new bureaucracy (soppy)
- mgmt is primeuly doing the snall admin fixes that adjust trim and keep
  thinngs going on (acccounts call it xx mgmt)
- 

mgmt can be seen as husthaving extea oeople lokiing around

but they need ti raise the alarm / persuafe the body to take action.  vutrnetly
thisbis topndown (hence politics hence cirruption)

but what other software mediated wwys of arriving at secisions 

https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=31645183 good coders as mgrs poonts

coders as managers -------------------

1950 to 2010 Porter to Google

managers now trying to be coaches and faciltators but also command and control

previously command and control was what eqs needed becaus you need tonbuild a
system and a machije as an orgaalnisatikn - and if all youbhave are people and
pens then you need a command and control point

but what if you have spmething like aoftware that has nonego, can communicate
to 1 or 100 people and not be creative but can make decisions ?

then building the software is the act of buikding a system - and the  you dont
need the human hierarchy - you just have a computer telling you what to do.

directing the bersion of the orgbaiatikbs you have bow

the impicaions are huge - you need to be explixt as tonthe aims of the
orgnaisation (corruption corrrosion, racism jim crow)

and it newns org can be self evovling - self modelling 

we dont have to lice in hierarchy 

This is prbably too far an analogy But if we think that it is really hard to
turn an oil tanker (analogy) imagine you want to tranform that oil tanker into
an aircraft.  If every nut and bolt, every process, was software
controlled,then the impossible just becomes highly difficult.





democracy ignorance-of-the-law-is-no-defence major-models-in-mind
coders-are-the-new-managers principles-of-understanding-societies-choices
cutting-through-the-noise how-do-society-and-companies-for-together
the-end-of-traditional-management end-of-the-elite
end-of-organisation-as-hierarchy software-architecture-and-tacit-knowledge
another-theory-of-the-firm trust and-all-that revolution-in-military-affairs
wrongwithbitcoin ibelieve




management is understood generally wrong like generalship is understood wrong -
it is not tactical genius on the battlefield, calling out intricate orders -
mostly because those orders would not be heard 

and like generalship management is missing some of the understandings - that
deploying people to a project is the only lever managers at most levels have 

effective management levels

politician financier manager coder Cpu


culture wars and the transiation to aoftware defined workd - the architects
problem 

So culture war is really about owning what is "normal" because that  is the
geacitational centre of all regulation (ie everythijgnis secuegies fruad) -
meaning fhat everything is "understood" - regulators dont set laws they expect
refukated to follow what is expected - 

but siftware chnages that - it demands precision and rules - architexts dillema
- and so ... will regulators change? 

- top level assigning all money build me a mix of tanks and artillery in this
  order for this mission - build orders and capital ships

- colonel level - how to run a tank battalion, have bough trucks following the
  tanks with shells and fuel - training and logiticis 

- sergeant level - clean the oil filter on that tank  - keep to training in day
  to day - 

- grunt levle - fire the gun 

three things

* an army and a company is a built function - it does what it is built to do.
  an army of tanks cannot fight a naval battle, a company of web services is
going to struggle running a logistics company


* the doctrine for companies is changing to be software first.  Like motrorised
  first.  this changes everything - if the front end is software literate the
whole company mist become so or it holds back 


* a model of the battle scape enables ... not movement by moment tactical
  decisions but less tactical freedom - the freedom to experiment is going - so
it is m much more likely to be a immutable company 

A general times the oace of march - that is marching soldiers at right oace is
soooo important the damn general is recommended tonso it (1917) during the
march on a reg basis.  !!! 

what is the equivalmwt for a CEO? 

https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/02/business/jack-welch-died.html Jack Wlech
model of managemrnt - we can donanything is failing for a more "lead a built
compnay means you are built for thenrole)

extras: peoole managwment still a skill sniffing outnproblems vision elite
hobnobbing - necesaary but why


Psychologocal safety org design usually is we have pit some above you whomwill
jusge your behaviour against their standrds withnno reciew exceptmin  ear
criminal cases 

get rid of management ---------------------

or rather stop thinking of it as a grey blob - somehow doing everything

and its not an officer class - stop thinking hierarchuies - mission command has
basicaly ended that as well. military swarms much more effective at common
levles 

- data collection and  analysis (some form of journalism as we see on youtube)
  perun 
- training
- sargenting / standards keeping
- strategy and policy (first part of democracy)
- communication internally (journalism)
- 

What is the metaverse?  ---------------------- Sharing experiences (in real
time for at least some of the participants) across a network

https://www.oreilly.com/radar/the-metaverse-is-not-a-place/

So being in a pib and chatting - not networked 

being in two pubs and having five or so people on a zoom call.  weird but yes
metaverae

doing joe wicks workout 

Crypto ------ My story - nah not me I dont get it

cyner security - what happens if someone destroys all the bank records? wioes
out the last week of trnaaxcations at barlcays?  well what if all money was on
BoE website? all transactions ? we just have a copy? what about rollbacks? well
go to court ...  what about privacy (well thats why you rollup into a bank
clearing house - see a little cottage industry going there)

but when cyber securty becomes a natioanl security issue this may work - but
not anonymously !! 

"""Indeed, cybersecurity risk is akin to pollution, a cost that the business
itself doesnt fully bear, but that the rest of society does."""


Interesting parts - its all public, its mostly money laundering, money
launderers are going to spend years getting caught, over time as they break
opsec, and an awful lot of dodgy accountants will get shot in the head, 

But 

- regulators and crypto
- Is a DAO a viabke way to buikd a democratic company?

I think the toxic culture of (pseudo)anonymity is going to hold back democracy
as ideal - plus no-one has solved voting and being anonymous because basically
youncannot 

so ... no - we go woth the basics of voting and humans and more importantly
human level voting and iddues 

software just bites it does not chew ----------------------- Eating the workd
is fine but more relevant is that software will be necesarybbut not sifficuent
in every industry bar tech

Disney now has more stresming sibs than netflix - because while getting
strenaing right is software oroblem and a hard one, the leverage in straming is
donyou have the content people want to watch.

watch dor same in car and construction etc 

Built the less than ideal thing ------------------

Military are built - tools designed fir a specific set of uses.  See russian
ukraine war 

but so is everything else in hunan rehxnological era

compnaies are built dor a specific size and use - they grow till they no longer
fot the environemnt

urban  entrea ar ebuikt - and our quality of life as welm as our exonomic
xapabilities are built too.  A farm that has no roads away from the farm and
too a market cannot supply oyher food.

Coties that have bonpublic spaces cannot have mixing and random serendiptios
shortcuts 

And our politics are built - we sell manifestos lead by politicians but it is
built by rukes and parties 

Look at energy use - we use about 40*3000*4 joules 480KJ per day (transport
heating farming etc etc) - thats about 40 humans or think ofnit as slaves.  Now
if you had 40 (robot) servants working for you per day, would you have designed
the life you live now? would you have built this life? this way? 

f not then we have a gap - the SRE gap - the diff between the company, the
urban, the society we have now, and the society we could have if it was
designed by software literates.

capialism, socialism, all-spciety-ism -----------
https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=32532654

At some point extetnalising rosk is just dumb for someo e  - and we just
regilate it out 

General AI - so what?  ----- What will a super AI be abke to do? Imagine an AI
that is human like intelkigence - then speed it up a million tikes - whatvdpe
sthatvmean? Is it wiser? Will it invent a solution to world peace? 

intelligence grows in a given environment - and is related to how fast it csn
intreqxt wifh thr environment 

so inagine a human on a coach wathcing TV - if we speed that up a million tikes
the person is just having a concersation with themselves - this is rarely a way
to build goo mental health

An AI like that is only yseful if connecred tonmilliosnof TVs or to millions of
experiments and interagciins

and at thisnpoint we are descriving mass epidemyolofy - the exact AI we are
developing by making everything an experiment (see Covid Number nine bus)

We wont buid genral AI - but we will be able to build metamind 

All strategy is built atrategy

All management is not in control - deciding what to build is wothin atrict
rails
- cant go outaide it

changing process hits up against built atratgeu and empires - Army Navy, turn
the sub around - 

rules ----- Law is rules software is rukes sofrware can be law

Software literacy means 

no one minds fair rules that are clear ans understood (see lockdown)

- rules can be easily understood (read) and *modelled*!

- and its same for fair - but thats politics 

Software has eaten so much all the important questions are political
-------------------- See crypto -> central bank crypto -> end of fractional
reserve 

A genral is just a cog in the systen as well - see wermacht - blaskowitz -
memoranda 

https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/we-have-ways-of-making-you-talk/id1457552694?i=1000576428741



management - too much emphaiss on people - to the extent that it all becomes
focused on "right people" - when the syatem is what we should be buikding
designing but politics is droving corporations and people who make good
politicians are people focused people - and dont know how ti build syatems 

Software management - this is about buikding systens to do the job (see fighter
command) - and its baout buikdijg softeare systems - that allow *command* but
nees to bow to mission command and this is rhe balance if totalirtairba and
dmeocracy - this is the great schism and the great need - feedbak realtime
information but aloow tactocal decision making but direct overall via
opeeational decisions (what reaources go where) 

these are not middle managemwnt decisions 

hollwingnout of middle managemet and data passing

React to chaos ans chnage better than yourbopponents 

There is atill Hope: ---------------------

https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=33145411#33145551

Open source software and hardware - security and complexity 


Limits to growth and current induatrial model --------------------
https://tupa.gtk.fi/raportti/arkisto/16_2021.pdf

can we model chemical dependancies?? 

Social media ------------- just newspapers but its just measuring previous
analog social media - what other people around you woukd tell you 


MOOP and counselling happiness, better living more producticity

people fear algorithm because it knowa us deeper than we want to allow others
to see - but really we need to let go cukturrally ans be more congruent 

social media is part of that 


Social Media is best viewed as what it replace - for newspapers.  They have
taken all their ad dollars. And much of their infkuence.

Another way to think of it is that a single person / journalist can post an
article and be read on any continent immediately.

And the news paper "publisher" is bound, almost by profit not regulation, to
keep supplying you things it thinks yiu will reqd, not mecessarily the
punlishers own political ciewpoint - and because this userbase is most of the
workd then the politixal viewpoints are most of the world

this is raw global dmeocrqcy.

no wonder it scares rhe crao out of us.

it releaes most conversatikns around the workd and we dint want to listen to
those ...



Just getting my thoughts straight:

1. This is primarily a discovery / promotion problem vs a common carrier
problem.

2. Content moderation is *brutally hard*.

3. Content moderation at scale is probably impossible - and at scale across
legal jurisdictions certainly is

4. The solutions end much of the business model and influence of social media.
It's probably a good thing.

So, social media firms are treated (under US law - which is where most firms
are headquartered so that's what mostly counts) as *common carrier*.  That is
they are not publishers, liable for the shit their users post, they are seen as
a telephone provider - AT&T is not prosecuted if I shout racist abuse over the
phone.

This is a good thing - newspapers can be prosecuted if they publish child
sexual abuse material, because they are making a *choice* to publish.  If
someone sends a CSAM by fax over the phone network the person sending it is
prosecuted not AT&T

Where does wikipedia sit?

However Facebook and Twitter are *not* passive pipes sending whatever out.
They do make decisions. Automated decisions obviously but decisions
nonetheless.

Those decisions Inthink stop them from being common carriers - they simply have
to become dumb pipes in order to keep that status.

Otherwise I think they just become liable.

Of course that shuts down their whole business model and .. yeah well.

* Notes on Trump and twitter and fake news. 
 
So why did Twitter ban Trump? There are of course many reasons but the avowed
reason was risk of further incitement to violence,

Other political leaders also incite violence, promote untruths.

The issue is trying to decide on The Truth rather than each persons truth 

But also the role of society in deciding a framework and set of ground truths.
(The earth is spherical, goes round the sun etc).

Content moderation

This is ridiculously hard. Nasty.

At scale it needs some AI approach. This is unlikely to work. 

A surprising good approach was linking to untruths (lost elections, flat earth)

This referred to commonly accepted scientific theories / facts.

Solutions:

Quite simply "divorce the pipes from the promotion" - that is a platform that
can accept any post / image etc 

Platofmrs will obv monitor (and if they dont someoen else will its public)

But the feed will have to be "things youbhave subscrived to"

Will this "drive engagement" - hell no. 

will this mean its harder fir small posts and channels to go viral and reach
karge audience - yes. 

Is that bad? Dunno.  Trump managed to make a preseidebtial run from it.


https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=33458865

its not the discovery issue really - my wife is upset about the awful antics of
politican - because we are more aware of the awfulness.  fix thenproblems and
thenputrage will fonaway - see brexit 

moderation is hard - we want to find the compromise candidates

https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=33477289

use ratings such that posts rated by people who have disagreed in past but now
agree get ranked higher - might lead to vacuous but might be how compromise
works 

Platform

Content moderation

content selection / presentation / management (from AI to expkicit user choice
is spectrum)

Content discovery

user authentication

user behaviour analysis and content labelling / moderation 

Platform is awesome (newspaper)

even if we just presented what was followed we have polarisation (see WhatsApp
Brazil) - humans sort themselves bu who they associate with. We are not
(merely) passive recipents of information and the algorithm

then the moderation as if you could not read the language - this is the level
of moderation that is feasible cross borders - not trying to judge trith facts
and opinion 

then we have legal restructions and regulations - these have two levels German
and Russian (ir German has clear defiend meaning, russian is whatever we tell
you) 

its not content moderation - its society moderation 

Final view on social media:

https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=33495381

https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=33503185

Links:
https://twitter.com/twittersafety/status/1347684877634838528?s=46&t=50jcltbtfG_eW5Xd9JBbuQ



DemOcracy in companies leads to situation where if company goes banktupr then
there is less need for industrial pilicy to cushion workers - they had
democratic access to and infience on comoany direction and so democracy can be
closer to ideal free market ahemcy  

Democracy in compmaies: leqds to more open debate and hence netter allocation
of resiurces - because "people with power to allocate, allocate ti benefit
themselves".  Bu taking that away every atep improves the aloocation of company
resources.

so not fool yourself that managwrs allocate better and all the peons will argue
endlessly - the argument matters as to which direction you fo 

An exonomy is not about profit, not even guided by prodots- it is about
creating the best we can - and using market to guide resources to the best we
can - its not just government that can distort the market

https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2019/sep/11/boeing-capitalism-deregulation

See also civic databases - scientifc archive held by one grad student used by
allnscience, every conversation trying to be walled up - thisnis failure of
commons. as much repressive as having the police listening in.  

Indisagree woth the cypherphunk manifesto - to try and create anonymous
transactions.  No we create IRL laws and spaces that make those trnasactions
free.  The cypherphino was wrong - technology will not free us - good laws free
us.  


https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=33571180

mastodon as reaction tonrisks in same way small scale farming reaction to
risksnin trade networks


Its social or its news ------------

https://lucumr.pocoo.org/2022/11/14/scaling-mastodon/

basically we dont want our news to be the stuff that goes viral - we want our
news to be facts - part of a civic database - punlished curated scientifically
supported facts

social is ... gossip.  what your fieends twll you.  When was the last timemone
of yiur friends expalined trigonometey or QE?

Social is perhaps more - advice.  

Advice has MOOP imloixations 

banking: https://www.interfluidity.com/v2/2669.html why is finance complex?
because it ala a con trick 


https://www.gsb.stanford.edu/faculty-research/publications/value-bosses i'm
