society and politics 
---------------------

Biggest surprises and biggest challenges to society have been wrought by tech

facebook is clearest example

it is a walled garden but it's direction to f travel is right

- we see universes of news, and failure to understand the other side (that dismotivator poster)
and fake news and threat of flash mob manipulation 

we can see attribution and issue ranking as solution

so first reportage will be to tank and verify all known issues - real voting ???


It's not the russians
people are choosing thier topics, and their biases, and as such choose through cognitive bias, choose the stories that promote their bias on their topics - see labour supporters most liked stories - a universe of news separate from others

how can we find these universes? software - see graph theory? find largest separate populations 
(examples?)
https://overcast.fm/+ES62uCW3Q

Discovering tribes 

the essence of this new politics is then to find our tribes (see the diamond age) 
threatened tribes react more than bribes tribes

but seeing those tribes, and measuring the new column inches, is vital to democratic process


Abundance and scarcity as the primary  tribes
- the main dividing line for brexit was university education.
but there is not something at uni that happens not some brainwashing.  it is the other way round - for michnof the past generation university was free and open to all. it was just a optional choice. and not going was not really a function of poverty but it was a function of the opportunity cost.  now lots of hand waving but being on the wavering to go to university line, shows issues of abundance and scarcity - thinking there is an abundance of wealth, and either university will unlock that or just does not matter, is different mindset to scarcity

and if you think there is a scarcity of resources, then immigration matters a lot - a lot more than if you think there is an abundance of doctors and cachools 



Listen to Pax Technica from TALKING POLITICS in Podcasts. https://itunes.apple.com/gb/podcast/talking-politics/id974670140?mt=2&i=1000392226424


Why Brexit is stupid - the technical standards will ride over nation states and enforce political HN age 

This siwhy Oss4gov matters 


Also what is a publisher defence will chnage

Just providing web space or blog space is defensible
But when you start promoting posts - that is performingnsome selection process then publisher rights diminish - somewhere between google page rank and Facebook timeline and some curated edited list of things to read we lose those rights 


Using micropayment as method to handle privacy respect
We need a way to say that personally derived data (behaviour data) is to be used for these purposes only - tagging the data source and then any subsequent aggregation packages must be clearly 

This is like knowing which mortgages are wrapped up in a CDS - yes it's painful for the banks but fuck you


Gig economy
https://www.reddit.com/r/london/comments/71smpc/hello_londoners_i_am_a_black_cab_driver_green/
The most interesting comment is "you are paying for the driver to be sitting around all day".  This is the efficiency argument for web services that can use the internet to reduce the friction  between suppliers and customers.

This is great - but, it's like roads. This is an infrastructure argument not a capture-by-private-company play

Uber : a far better app would be a completely open app, offering a customer any cab in a certain radius.  Perhaps you need a specific license but the point is the app is just a publisher - the contract is betwen the two ends.

Now this is the "jobs.txt" approach - as long as the protocol is open then anyone can play.

But it would be the end for Facebook, uber, airbnb and YouTube 


Algorithmic accountability bill 
signs things are improving (green shoots)
pro publica/ new york city
http://legistar.council.nyc.gov/LegislationDetail.aspx?ID=3137815&GUID=437A6A6D-62E1-47E2-9C42-461253F9C6D0

https://www.propublica.org/article/new-york-city-moves-to-create-accountability-for-algorithms

